The Enhance Roadmap Report for _______Report Date: _Dear _-  Welcome to the AMFAS movement! You have joined one of the most professional and progressive services to optimize brain health now available. We are honored that you are participating in The Enhance Protocol®. Most participants are seeking additional guidance to help optimize brain health and cognitive function. We want to help you get closer to your goals and we have established many tools to support you. Step 1- Access your membership portal. If you have not yet signed into your membership portal, this is your first task! Please visit your membership portal at https://community.amindforallseasons.com/feed. There, you will find many helpful tools, resources, and support as you participate in The Enhance Protocol. Step 2- Schedule your Roadmap Review with one of our experts. You have received an email from info@amindforallseasons.com that invites you to schedule a personal consultation to review the details found in this Roadmap. There are other important instructions in that email. Step 3- Start the process of reading your personalized Roadmap and write down questions so you can be prepared to meet with one of our coaches. There is no single treatment to improve your brain health. However, experts in neurological health agree that a personalized, multi-interventional approach to address individual challenges can strengthen brain health and support cognition. This roadmap is the first step in the process to establishing your personalized treatment plan. Our personalized recommendations for you may include suggestions to correct nutrient and hormone deficiencies, identify and calm inflammation, optimize insulin resistance and diabetes, identify and clear pathogens, biotoxins, chemicals and heavy metals, improve blood flow to the brain, correct unhealthy or risky lifestyles, identify hidden dental decay, calm chronic infections, and a host of other variables. Step 4- Create a Fullscript account. Your personalized Roadmap will include some recommendations to use important, high-quality supplements. We want to help simplify the process of finding high-quality, cost-effective supplements to support your journey to better brain health. Although you are welcome to purchase supplements wherever you can find them, most of our clients find that Fullscript’s pricing is better than what they find on Amazon and other retailers.Step 5- Check out the schedule for Office Hours. Each expert at A Mind For All Seasons schedules a time to meet with you on Zoom to answer your questions. Many members find timely answers to important questions via the Office Hours portal. This portal offers access to health care providers, consultants, nurses, and other brain health experts.This Roadmap Report has been developed and personalized for you. You are encouraged to review this Roadmap with your primary care physician and identify those areas where you can optimize brain healthy interventions and lifestyle. We look forward to working with you and your doctor to optimize your brain health.The Executive Team A Mind For All Seasons
Roadmap Summary for ___________The Enhance Protocol®Report Date: __Labs Drawn: _____Your Test ResultsThe next few pages include the results of your cognitive and blood tests. They include a short explanation of the importance of the test, along with your results.  The test results are in RED on a gray background. To help you understand your ‘next steps,’ follow the colored clues below. Supplement or Medication Recommendations are highlighted in Green.Recommended homework, additional research, and opportunities to ask questions during office hours from the AMFAS coaches or medical staff during Office Hours are highlighted in Yellow. Your Baseline Cognitive Test ResultsEach participant in The Enhance Protocol® completes at least one baseline cognitive test. Depending on your age and your current cognitive health, you have been asked to complete a MoCA test or a computer-based CNS VITAL SIGNS test. Your test results are summarized below, and the complete results should have been sent separately along with this report. Regardless of your results, The Enhance Protocol® is designed to help you improve brain functioning from your baseline. We look forward to helping you complete a retest once you have applied the recommendations in your Roadmap Report for a few months. Please attend one of our online Office Hours sessions and ask for guidance regarding how to understand your specific test results.These are the results from your recent cognitive test.orWe did not have any results from cognitive testing when we prepared this roadmap. You are encouraged to do a baseline cognitive test so we can measure your progress. 
A Targeted Supplements Approach Can Improve Your Brain HealthMany individuals are using supplements on a regular basis. You may be using supplements because your healthcare provider recommended it. You may be using supplements because you saw a commercial or read an article about the benefits of one supplement over another. In the section below, you will be encouraged to start using some supplements. These recommendations are based on your health history, your lab results, evidence-based medicine, and our clinical experience of what can help support good cognitive function. This is one of the more powerful advantages of The Enhance Protocol®. We have personalized our recommendations based on your medical history, your social history, and your laboratory results. We have also made some recommendations about the use of some NOOTROPIC supplements. The term "nootropics" was first used to refer to a chemical or substance that met specific criteria for cognitive enhancement. Participants use NOOTROPICS as cognitive boosters, memory enhancers, or as a group of supplements that can improve focus, motivation, memory, mood, and cognition. The current use of the term nootropic refers to any natural or synthetic substance that may have a positive impact on mental skills, the brain, cognitive abilities, or related effects. A good example of a nootropic is caffeine. The quality, manufacturing, and dosing of your supplements matter! We often recommend adjusting your use of supplements based on your lab results. You can purchase your supplements from any vender, but to help you ensure you are getting the right dose and quality supplements, we encourage you to establish an account to the Fullscript Online Supplement Store. You can access this website on our community link at https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/fullscript/ 1. You will receive a 20% discount for all supplements due to your participation in The Enhance Protocol®. 2. You may order recommended supplements from this site with free shipping (over $50) and find our preferred brands.3. Click on Fullscript banner and create a login and password.APO E Genetic Profile and Your Risk for Oxidative StressYour APO E Genotype is ___. Your APO E genetics has some predictive value for increased risk of cardiovascular and neurodegenerative disease. Your GLUTATHIONE level was_ and many neurologists suggest the optimal range may exceed 300 ug/mL. GLUTATHIONE reflects your ability to calm oxidative stress. Your GLUTATHIONE level is very low, which is suggestive of a high level of oxidative stress. Consider the following:- You have one of the APO E4 genes that may convey greater risk of Alzheimer’s. However, genetics convey susceptibility, but they are not determinative… you can influence their expression! You will want to be particularly thoughtful about embracing a healthy lifestyle, using high quality supplements, hormone optimization, and toxicity. Details about each of these interventions will follow. - You have both APO E4 genes that convey greater risk of Alzheimer’s. However, genetics convey susceptibility, but they are not determinative… you can influence their expression! You will want to be particularly thoughtful about embracing a healthy lifestyle, using high quality supplements, hormone optimization, and toxicity. Details about each of these interventions will follow.- You do not have the APO E genetic risk for Alzheimer’s Dementia. You should consider ADDITIONAL IMMUNE SYSTEM TESTING and/or TOXICITY TESTING to clarify your risk for TOXIC CONTRIBUTORS of neurodegenerative disease In your history, you reported taking NAC but did not reference the dosing.- Your health history reported ALCOHOL WITHDRAWAL as part of your health history. If you still consume alcohol in moderation, you are encouraged to discontinue alcohol use as it may exacerbate your ongoing risk of cognitive dysfunction.- To support a healthy antioxidant response, you are encouraged to use 2 supplements to support the natural production of glutathione. These supplements may help to lower the impact of Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS) by using a combination of unique products listed below. - Please start NAC 600 mg 2x’s per day. This product is inexpensive and supports GLUTATHIONE recycling by improving cysteine levels.- Please start GLUTATHIONE RECYCLER 1 capsule 2 x’s/day. This is a product by Apex Energetics. This supplement contains cordyceps, gotu kola, milk thistle, L-glutamine, and alpha-lipoic acid. All of these have been shown in studies to improve total body GLUTATHIONE stores.- In addition to the interventions listed above, you may consider taking the GLUTATHIONE CHALLENGE. The purpose of this challenge is to see how you respond physically and cognitively when you rapidly increase your glutathione levels within a short period of time. Please start TRIZOMAL GLUTATHIONE and use 1 tsp (5 mL) 3-4 x’s per day for 1-2 weeks. This is a supplement from Apex Energetics. If you complete the challenge and notice a significant improvement in the way you feel (less brain fog, more energy, less sickness), then it confirms that contributors of oxidative stress are negatively impacting your health. Staring learning how to reduce oxidative stress in your life. This would be a good question to bring to Office Hours. MTHFR GENETIC PROFILES- There are certain genetic variants that impact a person’s ability to synthesize B-vitamins. This often correlates with a group of genetic variants called MTHFR genetics. If you have one or more of these genetic variants, you may benefit from a particular form of methylated B-vitamins. Your MTHFR Genotype shows a _ variant and a_ variant. - The C677T and A1298C alleles are variants suggestive of methylation challenges. You may benefit from taking a supplement like METHYLPRO indefinitely. Given your genetic MTHFR profile, you are encouraged to verify that you are taking a methylated B complex supplement.  - The C677T and A1298C alleles are variants suggestive of methylation challenges. You may benefit from taking a supplement like METHYLPRO indefinitely. Given your genetic MTHFR profile, you are encouraged to verify that you are taking a methylated B complex supplement. With your history of a debilitating depression, this recommendation extends beyond the recommendations offered for those with elevated HOMOCYSTEINE.- The C677T allele is a variant suggestive of methylation challenges and you may benefit from taking a supplement like METHYLPRO indefinitely. Given your genetic MTHFR profile, you are encouraged to verify that you are taking a methylated B complex supplement. With your history of debilitating depression, this recommendation extends beyond the recommendations offered for those with elevated HOMOCYSTEINE.- The C677T allele is a variant suggestive of methylation challenges and you may benefit from taking a supplement like METHYLPRO indefinitely. Given your genetic MTHFR profile, you are encouraged to verify that you are taking a methylated B complex supplement. With your history of a debilitating depression, this recommendation extends beyond the recommendations offered for those with elevated HOMOCYSTEINE.- The A1298C allele is a variant suggestive of methylation challenges and you may benefit from taking a supplement like METHYLPRO indefinitely. Given your genetic MTHFR profile, you are encouraged to verify that you are taking a methylated B complex supplement. With your history of debilitating depression, this recommendation extends beyond the recommendations offered for those with elevated HOMOCYSTEINE.- The A1298C allele is a variant suggestive of methylation challenges and you may benefit from taking a supplement like METHYLPRO indefinitely. Given your genetic MTHFR profile, you are encouraged to verify that you are taking a methylated B complex supplement. With your history of a debilitating depression, this recommendation extends beyond the recommendations offered for those with elevated HOMOCYSTEINE.- Due to your METHYLATION genetics, you may consider complete abstinence from ALCOHOL. Though you may not be a heavy drinker, and you may consume very infrequently, ALCOHOL is an ‘inflammogen’ and can exacerbate methylation challenges in your body and alter the detox pathways specific to the liver.- Given your genetic MTHFR profile, you may consider taking a methylated B-complex vitamin indefinitely.?’d Homocysteine Levels Can Impair Brain FunctionYour HOMOCYSTEINE level was_. Since HOMOCYSTEINE is linked to inflammation, we recommend a goal level < 7 umol/L. An elevated HOMOCYSTEINE level correlates with both heart disease and cognitive disorders. By improving your HOMOCYSTEINE levels, you effectively lower your risk of both disease states. Elevated levels are often related to sub-optimal levels of B vitamins. Your VITAMIN B12 level was_. The goal is > 1000 pg/mL to best support brain health.Your FOLATE level (often called folic acid) is_. The goal is > 15 ng/mL to best support brain health. Masterclass: https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/masterclass/sections/387368/lessons/1506604 - Consider starting methylated B complex supplement. You can choose between 2 high quality supplements. Please consider SUPER METHYL-SP from Apex Energetics. The dosing is 1 capsule/day. We also recommend METHYLPRO; B-COMPLEX + 5 mg L-METHYLFOLATE 1 tablet/day. You may choose between these two options.  This recommendation is offered considering your history of depression and/or your MTHFR genetics. You may choose to use SUPER METHYL-SP from Apex Energetics or METHYLPRO; B-COMPLEX + 5 mg L-METHYLFOLATE 1 tablet/day in place of your current B-COMPLEX supplement because of your genetic MTHFR profile.- Consider starting TRIMETHYLGLYCINE 1000 mg/day. We recommend adding this supplement to a methylated B complex when HOMOCYSTEINE levels are > 12. - Consider starting a supplement called CREATINE MONOHYDRATE. The standard dose is 5 grams per day. We recommend adding this supplement to a methylated B complex and trimethylglycine when HOMOCYSTEINE levels are > 15. CREATINE comes in a chewable or a powder form that can be mixed in a drink. It can help improve energy levels and help to support HOMOCYSTEINE recycling.- Consider taking a BETAINE HCL supplement with your meals, and particularly when you take a B-COMPLEX supplement. Your history of bariatric surgery may have reduced your ability to make HCL and can lead to acid reflux, poor digestion, bloating, etc. This can also negatively impact your ability to absorb essential B vitamins.Your baseline Vitamin D level is_. The optimal level is suggested to be 60-80 ng/mL.- This level falls very close to the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended. You are encouraged to continue your current VITAMIN D supplement.- Your VITAMIN D level falls within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- This level is close to the optimal parameters and though no additional intervention is recommended, you may want to check your VITAMIN D level a few times per year to make sure that it does not drop.- Your VITAMIN D level is suboptimal, and supplementation is recommended. Please note the section in your Guidebook about the importance of, and dosing recommendation to optimize VITAMIN D. Since your VITAMIN D was < 30, you are encouraged to supplement with 10,000 iu of VITAMIN D3 per day and then recheck your levels in 90 days. Since your VITAMIN D was 30-39, you are encouraged to supplement with 8,000 iu of VITAMIN D3 per day, and then recheck your levels in 90 days.Since your VITAMIN D was 40-49, you are encouraged to supplement with 4,000 iu of VITAMIN D3 per day, and then recheck your levels in 90 days.Since your VITAMIN D was 50-59, you are encouraged to supplement with 2,000 iu of VITAMIN D3 per day, and then recheck your levels in 90 days. - In your health history, you indicated that you are taking a VITAMIN D supplement. However, your serum levels remain suboptimal. Please note the section in your Guidebook about the importance of, and dosing recommendation to optimize your VITAMIN D levels. Since your VITAMIN D was < 30, you are encouraged to add an additional 10,000 iu/day to your current dosing for 90 days and then recheck in 90 days. Since your VITAMIN D was 30-39, you are encouraged to add an additional 8,000 iu/day to your current dosing for 90 days and then recheck in 90 days. Since your VITAMIN D was 40-49, you are encouraged to add an additional 4,000 iu/day to your current dosing for 90 days and then recheck in 90 days. Since your VITAMIN D was 50-59, you are encouraged to add an additional 2,000 iu/day to your current dosing for 90 days and then recheck in 90 days.  Your combined Vitamin E level is_. The optimal level is suggested to be 12-20 mg/L.- This level falls within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- Consider starting a supplement called COMPLETE E from the company Metabolic Response Modifier. The standard dose is 1 capsule/day. This supplement is a comprehensive formula that provides all eight naturally occurring forms of VITAMIN E. This supplement includes both tocopherol and tocotrienol forms of VITAMIN E. VITAMIN E can thin the blood, and you have been prescribed a prescription BLOOD THINNER. If you choose to start VITAMIN E, you need to recheck this level after 90 days of supplementation. - Your VITAMIN E level is starting to trend quite elevated. It may not be helpful for this level to continue to increase. If you are taking a VITAMIN E supplement, you may want to speak with your primary care provider about this level. VITAMIN E is a fat-soluble vitamin that can be associated with adverse outcomes if it gets too elevated.Your baseline OMEGACHECK® value was _ % and risk reduction begins when your value is > 5.4 % by weight. Your OMEGA 6:3 ratio was _-to-1. This means that your OMEGA-6 fatty acid levels were found to be _x’s more prevalent than your OMEGA-3 fatty acid levels. We recommend striving for a ratio as close to a 4:1 ratio (lor lower). In fact, a 1:1 ratio is considered amazing, but it is difficult to achieve with the Standard American Diet!Your ARACHADONIC ACID-to-EPA ratio was_ and we’d like to see this ratio < 8.0. Since ARACHADONIC ACID can be a marker of trending inflammation and EPA can help suppress or optimize inflammation, we like this ratio to trend low in chronic disease. This value often becomes optimized when your OMEGA-3 ratios are optimized.Your ARACHADONIC ACID level was_ and we’d like to see this value < 10. This value often becomes optimized when your OMEGA-3 ratios are optimized.- If you are not taking an OMEGA-3, consider starting a high-quality, triglyceride-based OMEGA-3 supplement. OMEGA-3’s are considered very anti-inflammatory and often help to calm systemic inflammation. You are encouraged to continue a high-potency, high-quality OMEGA-3 supplements. Recommended brands include Triple Strength OMEGA-3 FISH OIL by Sports Research (Costco), PRO-OMEGA 2000 or ULTIMATE OMEGA 2X by Nordic Naturals. The maintenance dose is 3 caps per day- Your history identifies you are taking a KRILL OIL. Though considered healthy, KRILL OIL is extremely low in DHA and EPA omega-3 fatty acids. Consider shifting to a different fish oil support. Verify that your OMEGA-3 supplement is a TRIGLYCERIDE-derived OMEGA-3 supplement and not an Ethyl Ester supplement. There is a substantial difference in absorption between these two types of fish oil supplements. Recommended brands include Triple Strength OMEGA-3 FISH OIL by Sports Research (Costco), PRO-OMEGA 2000 or ULTIMATE OMEGA 2X by Nordic Naturals. The maintenance dose is 3 caps per day.- A history of concussion, a TBI, or a very low OMEGA 6:3 INDEX justifies taking the OMEGA-3 CHALLENGE as outlined by Dr. Michael Lewis. The OMEGA CHALLENGE includes taking 10,000 mg of combined EPA and DHA OMEGA-3 per day for 1-2 months. - Your OMEGA-3 levels are quite suboptimal for neurological functioning, and you are encouraged to start a high-potency, high-quality OMEGA-3 supplement. Recommended brands include Triple Strength OMEGA-3 FISH OIL by Sports Research (Costco), PRO-OMEGA 2000 or ULTIMATE OMEGA 2X by Nordic Naturals. The maintenance dose is 3 capsules daily. If you prefer a liquid OMEGA-3 supplement, consider PHYTO BRAIN-E. The recommended dose is 1-2 tsp, 2x’s/day. This supplement has a very concentrated amount of DHA and is recommended to those with a history of head trauma or neurodegenerative disease.Taking an OMEGA- Though you are currently supplementing, you are not yet at the evidence-based goal for the 4:1, OMEGA 6:3 RATIO. You are encouraged to look at the label of your OMEGA-3 to make sure you are taking a high-potency, triglyceride-based OMEGA-3 supplement, and you should increase your maintenance dosing to 2 capsules, 2 x’s/day. Recommended brands include Triple Strength OMEGA-3 FISH OIL by Sports Research (Costco), PRO-OMEGA 2000 or ULTIMATE OMEGA 2X by Nordic Naturals. The maintenance dose is 3 capsules daily. If you prefer a liquid OMEGA-3 supplement, consider PHYTO BRAIN-E. The recommended dose is 1-2 tsp, 2x’s/day. This supplement has a very concentrated amount of DHA and is recommended to those with a history of head trauma or neurodegenerative disease.Your baseline MAGNESIUM RBC level is_. The optimal level is suggested to be > 5.2 mg/dL.- This level falls within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- Consider starting MAGNESIUM THREONATE 2000 mg at night.	Your baseline COPPER level is_. The optimal level is debatable, but if looked at in the context of copper-to-zinc ratio, the goal level is near 100 ug/dL. Your baseline ZINC level is_. The optimal level is debatable, but if looked at in the context of copper-to-zinc ratio, the goal level is near 100 ug/dL. Your COPPER-to-ZINC RATIO is ____. The optimal RATIO is a 1-to-1 ratio, and not greater than 1.3.- This ratio falls within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- Your C:Z RATIO is trending elevated. Consider starting ZINC PICCOLINATE 30-50 mg & VITAMIN C 500 mg/day.- Your C:Z RATIO is trending elevated. Consider starting ZINC PICCOLINATE 30-50 mg & LIPOSOMAL VITAMIN C + R-LIPOIC ACID 4 pumps daily.Selenium level is_. The optimal is > 125 ug/L. SELENIUM is a helpful antioxidant and cofactor in many biochemical reactions in the body. Researchers have identified the role of SELENIUM in optimizing immune function, and it helps to reduce the risk of Alzheimer’s disease and Parkinson’s disease. - This level falls within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- Your SELENIUM level is too low for optimal neurological function. Consider starting CLEAR WAY COFACTORS 2 capsules/day to help raise your functional SELENIUM level.Blood Sugar, Insulin Resistance and Diabetes Impact Brain HealthYour fasting BLOOD SUGAR was_. The goal is < 100 mg/dL. baseline INSULIN was_. The goal is < 7. INSULIN levels should be very low when you have not eaten. Your baseline HOMA-IR calculation is_. The goal is < 1.2). Your baseline A1c was_. The goal is < 5.6, lower if you have an APO E4 gene.  We encourage our clients to strive for a level <5.3 if you have both copies of the APO E4 gene variant. - You will find excellent guidance to help you with meal planning to improve your cognitive health. That guidance is summarized in the next section. However, the following considerations are offered to your blood sugar or metabolic labs. - Your blood sugar markers would suggest you could benefit from starting a supplement called GLYCOBERINE-MX by Apex Energetics. The recommended dose is 1 capsule 2 x’s/day. This supplement contains berberine, alpha lipoic acid, burdock, and rose hips. Each of these supplements has research to support improved insulin sensitivity and a lowering of blood sugar levels.- Alzheimer’s is often referred to as ‘Diabetes Type 3.’ Since cognitive dysfunction is often impacted by insulin resistance in the brain, focus on the interventions that will help lower your blood sugar and improve your insulin sensitivity. A thoughtful, brain-healthy diet is rich in whole foods, colorful vegetables and loaded with vitamins, fiber, and healthy fats. Intentional meal planning that incorporates intermittent fasting, low carb and KETO principles often promotes improved cognition.- There are many researchers impressed that elevated blood sugars may have a stronger correlation than your genetics to induce brain atrophy. A KETOGENIC DIET may be extremely beneficial. You may consider purchasing a KETONE METER or experiment with a CONTINUOUS GLUCOSE MONITOR to help you learn how to understand the nuances of metabolic optimization. Your coach can teach you how to use a Freestyle Libre Monitor to quickly identify and track blood sugars without having to stick your finger.  - A very thoughtful diet that is rich in whole foods, colorful vegetables and loaded with vitamins, fiber, and healthy fats are a hallmark of a brain-healthy diet. Though you do not appear to have diabetes, a diet high in sugars or starchy carbohydrates is often related to a diet low in micronutrients. - Have you ever heard of a CONTINUOUS GLUCOSE MONITOR (CGM)? If not, you have probably seen an individual with diabetes wearing a blood sugar sensor on the arm.  Wearing a CGM is one of the best ways to evaluate the impact of your diet on your metabolic health. Inquire with your coach for instructions on how to obtain and apply a CGM. We recommend that every participant of The Enhance Protocol® (including all non-diabetics) wear a CGM to learn about how their diet impacts their metabolic health.- Please attend Office Hours to learn how you can get access and use a CGM sensor.- Please consider dramatically reducing or eliminating SUGARS from your daily meal plans. Your genetics suggest that you may be at elevated risk for insulin resistance in the brain.- The correlation between serum KETONE levels and cognitive health is so interrelated, you may consider taking a KETONE supplement daily as an added way to provide a powerful fuel for the brain. Research suggests ketones readily pass the blood brain barrier and they can be anti-inflammatory. There are many commercially available products. Some products offer KETONE SALTS, and others offer KETONE ESTERS. You may consider dedicating one of your upcoming Office Hours to learn more about how KETONE supplement may support your goals. - Strict dietary interventions may prove very beneficial. Because of CELIAC disease, you are likely to eat a GLUTEN-FREE diet. Did you know that 50% of individuals with CELIAC also have an intolerance to DAIRY? You may also benefit from a DAIRY-FREE, GRAIN FREE, AUTOIMMUNE PALEO DIET. Your coach can provide some additional guidance.- Strict dietary interventions may prove very beneficial. If you have not considered a GLUTEN-FREE, DAIRY-FREE, AUTOIMMUNE PALEO diet, this needs to be one area of exploration. Your coach can provide some additional guidance.- Please consider dramatically reducing or eliminating SODA from your daily meal plans. Most SODA in the United States is made with High Fructose Corn Syrup (HFCS) and there is growing evidence that HFCS lowers ATP production (energy production in the cell) and leads to increases in systemic inflammation and uric acid formation.- There may be a relationship between ALLERGIES and DIET. We have found that when individuals modify their diet and become very intentional about how they eat, many of their bothersome allergies settle. Consider dietary interventions as a very functional way of reducing your allergy symptoms. Please join Office Hours and inquire about the relationship of food allergies and sinus congestion.- Individuals who experience CHRONIC ALLERGIES and who consume ALCOHOL, may have a histamine intolerance. Foods that are fermented may induce or trigger a histamine response. Consider a LOW HISTAMINE DIET to help settle your allergies. Avoid common foods that are fermented (yogurt, sauerkraut, kimchi, kombucha, and all forms of alcohols). This is another good reason to eliminate alcohol from your daily routine. ??- Individuals who experience MIGRAINE HEADACHES and CHRONIC ALLERGIES, should learn more about MAST CELL ACTIVATION, and consider a series of interventions to calm the immune system to see if these symptoms improve.- You have enough triggers in your personal history to introduce you to MAST CELL ACTIVATION. Overactivation of mast cells often leads to brain fog, multiple chemical sensitivities, allergies, rashes, irritable bowels, insomnia, and a host of additional challenges. Please review the section on MAST CELL ACTIVATION and consider if you have symptoms such that it merits additional investigation. You may choose to visit your primary care provider, or you may choose to schedule a TELEMEDICINE CONSULTATION to review your symptoms. Additional fees may apply.  The Enhance Protocol® Eating PlanResearch shows that very intentional changes in your diet followed over a period of several weeks and months can IMPROVE total health and eliminate symptoms of chronic disease. The Enhance Protocol® was designed to help individuals improve cognitive health, but it has shown to effectively support weight loss, reduce joint pain, improve GI health (lower IBS and acid reflux), reduce symptoms of autoimmune disease (rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, etc.) and improve mental health. We recommend you follow diet recommendations for a full 90 days to see how well you respond.  At the heart of this eating plan is complete AVOIDANCE of processed foods, and specifically, certain inflammatory foods. This will help you to ‘reset’ metabolic pathways, calm inflammation, and prime your metabolism for tissue repair. > STOP focusing on the number of calories in your food and start to focus on eating real, whole foods. Calorie counting becomes less irrelevant when you eliminate junk food. In fact, eating natural foods high in healthy fats and loaded with anti-inflammatory phytonutrients will support your quest for better physical and brain health, and optimize your weight and metabolism.   > Dramatically lower or STOP all grains, including wheat, rye, barley and oats for the next 90 days. The proteins found in these grains (gluten, glutenin, lectins, etc.) can be very inflammatory. Embracing a grain-free diet will help you to know if you are sensitive to these proteins. Refined flour is the base ingredient for most processed foods. Through whole wheat products are more healthy than bleached and refined flour, you are encouraged to leave them behind for a time. Many individuals are oblivious to troublesome symptoms like bloating, gas, IBS, brain fog, and migraines that are caused by gluten. > Please STOP all ‘diet’ and processed foods (crackers, cookies, pastries, cold cereal, pancakes, waffles, snacks, TV dinners, and all other pre-made foods) that only require microwaving, or the addition of water. One of our goals is to lower your blood sugar and insulin levels. This is impossible if you eat processed foods. > Please STOP added sugars, high-fructose corn syrup, diet sodas, flavored water (Gatorade®, Crystal Lite®, Powerade Zero®) and other artificially sweetened foods or beverages. This step is essential to balance your microbiome (bacteria in your gut). Diet soda is the great deceiver. Consider all the over-weight people that consume diet soda because it is calorie free. Diet soda is flavored with artificial sweeteners, artificial coloring, and preservatives that just might stimulate an inflammatory response in your body. > Depending on your response to milk products, you may choose to reduce or ELIMINATE milk/dairy products in the early phase of your dietary experiment (at least for the first 30 days).> Consider skipping breakfast and extending the length of time between dinner and your next meal. There is impressive research on intermittent fasting or delayed eating. The research about intermittent fasting and mood disorders and brain health is overpowering. When we skip breakfast and only drink water between last night’s dinner and tomorrow’s breakfast, we allow the body to focus on ‘cleaning up metabolism, repairing broken neurons, and clearing proteins in the brain. If you want to learn more, google the phrase autophagy and brain health. You will find lots of good articles and data on the power of intermittent fasting. A nice approach to intermittent fasting or delayed eating is shown below for your breakfast routine:SundayMondayTuesdayWednesdayThursdayFridaySaturdayEat an omelet &avoid bread or sugar.Go on a walkSkip breakfastOnly drink water before your next meal. Go exercise!Eat an avocado or olives or make a green smoothie &Go on a walkSkip breakfastOnly drink water before your next meal & Go exercise!Eat an omelet &avoid bread or sugar.Go on a walkSkip breakfastOnly drink water before your next meal & Go exercise!Eat an avocado or olives or make a green smoothie &Go on a walkThere is so much more that could be said about optimizing your diet, but recommendations should be personalized and prioritized. Additional information about optimizing your diet and meal plans can be found on our community website at www.community.amindforallseasons.com Some members may benefit from a ‘deeper dive’ into the following areas:> Ketogenic diets that focus on lowering blood sugar and metabolic disorders for individuals with dementia or persistent mental health challenges. For those who choose to embrace ketogenic dieting, you are encouraged to purchase a ketone monitor or ketone urine strips to validate that you are in metabolic ketosis as you work through the diet. > Autoimmune Paleo diets and the Carnivore diet can help members that struggle with autoimmune diseases and chronic allergies. One of the goals of these dietary approaches is to avoid inflammatory proteins that activate the immune system. > A Low Carb diet is a less restrictive diet that aims to lower simple carbohydrates in the diet to better control blood sugar and metabolic health. > The MIND diet or the DASH diet are approaches that have been shown to lower salt for those with congestive heart failure or persistently elevated high blood pressure problems. > The Mediterranean diet is good for metabolic health, cardiovascular disease, high cholesterol, and a host of other challenges. It is difficult to cover all your questions about the best diet for you, but we are happy to answer questions during office hours and respond to your inquiries on our community membership site. If you need a little TLC, or a personalized approach to help you with diet and menu planning, please consider scheduling a coaching call or telemedicine consultation with one of our medical providers. Additional fees may apply.Cardiovascular Risk and Cholesterol LevelsYour TOTAL CHOLESTEROL level was_. While cardiologists like to see TOTAL CHOLESTEROL levels < 200, we are a little more liberal with this marker. Your TRIGLYCERIDE level was_. The optimal level is thought to be <150, especially if you have insulin resistance, diabetes or elevated liver enzymes. This cholesterol marker is highly influenced by diet. In fact, it is most influenced by your carbohydrate (sugar) intake. If you want to lower your TRIGLYCERIDE levels, stop eating sugar!Your HDL CHOLESTEROL, which is often considered ‘the good cholesterol,’ was_. The optimal is >40 and the most significant way to raise this level is daily exercise. Your LDL CHOLESTEROL, which is often considered ‘the bad cholesterol’ was_. Cardiologists often use your LDL CHOLESTEROL to predict your need for cholesterol lowering medication like STATIN therapy. We are more cautious with STATIN medications due to their risk of causing brain fog, insulin resistance, and decreased CoQ10 levels.Your TRIG-to-HDL RATIO was_. The optimal RATIO is <2.  Anything above 2 is a sign of insulin resistance. Too often, we pin our views of good vascular health on low cholesterol levels. However, there are a few other risk factors that contribute to good cardiovascular health and brain health. We have summarized these risk factors in a masterclass. Masterclass https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/masterclass/sections/387363/lessons/1441392 - We recommend lifestyle as the primary method for optimizing your cholesterol before you default to cholesterol lowering medicine. The eating plan summarized previously is an excellent starting point to optimize your cholesterol levels.- One of the most successful interventions to lower your risk of cardiovascular disease or vascular dementia is to QUIT SMOKING. Please visit with your memory coach and consider ways we can help you become tobacco free. - We recommend lifestyle as the primary method for optimizing your cholesterol. - Elevated cholesterol levels may reflect a metabolic syndrome and may predict additional risk of poor vascular health. However, many providers rely heavily on STATINS to improve cholesterol values and vascular risk without contemplating their impact on brain fog and depletion of CoQ10. There are instances where this STATIN therapy may be very appropriate. However, at AMFAS, we prefer to look at other markers of oxidative or vascular stress before immediately jumping into STATIN therapy. You may consider completing a CORONARY ARTERY CALCIUM SCORE. This is a topic that will help to predict your specific risk for atherosclerosis and is a way to better understand if elevated cholesterol levels are physiological or pathological.  You should attend Office Hours and inquire about this test with our medical director, Randy Vawdrey.- This test typically costs $100-$200 (depending on your location). A CAC score is arguably the best predictor of vascular health.- Consider starting MEGAQUINONE to help support cardiovascular health.- Consider starting MEGAQUINONE K2-7, 2 capsules/day. This supplement is a prescription drug in many European countries for the treatment of cardiovascular disease. In the United States, it is great supplement to use if you have a history of cardiovascular disease and if you take a STATIN to lower cardiovascular risk. - Curiously, your TRIGLYCERIDES are quite low. Not all cholesterol levels are problematic. An uncharacteristically low TRIGLYCERIDE LEVEL often correlates with cognitive decline. Dr. Bredesen, a renowned neurologist, has suggested that extremely low TRIGLYCERIDE levels may be related to systemic toxicity.  Use lifestyle as the primary method for optimizing your cholesterol and do not be afraid to intentionally add healthy fats to your daily meal planning.- Consider completing the PRODROME SCAN blood test to evaluate your PLASMOLOGENS.- A LIPID PANEL offers little predictive value of your true cardiac risk. For example, many individuals with very low cholesterol have advanced vascular disease and others with higher cholesterol levels actually have very low risk of atherosclerosis. Elevated cholesterol levels may simply reflect a metabolic syndrome, an unhealthy diet, or compromised liver health. Unfortunately, many individuals feel pressure to take STATINS to reduce cardiovascular risk, even when the actual risk has not been quantified. - If you want a better predictor of vascular health to help you decide if you should continue STATIN therapy, please request a CORONARY ARTERY CALCIUM SCORE (CAC). A CAC score can help quantify your actual risk for atherosclerotic build-up in the coronary arteries. The CAC score of 0–99 is very low risk. A score of 100–299 reflects moderately increased risk, and a score of 300+ is severely increased risk. - Once you know your CAC score, you may choose to work through a few evidence-based interventions (in lieu of, or in addition to STATINS), to help lower your cardiovascular risk. - You may choose to complete a telemedicine consultation with one of our practitioners to talk through these evidence-based interventions. Keep in mind that lifestyle optimization (an anti-inflammatory diet & daily exercise) is the starting point. Additional fees may apply to those who want a TELEMEDICINE CONSULTATION.- In your health history, you reported persistently ELEVATED BLOOD PRESSURE. High blood pressure exerts a negative impact on the lining of the blood vessels and may lessen the production of eNOS and nNOS. You may find benefit in a daily pharmaceutical to maintain blood pressure within optimal parameters. In the meantime, consider starting a nutraceutical called NEURO2. The standard dose is 2 capsules, 2 x’s per day. This supplement contains the nootropic VINPOCETINE, which is used by many to support brain health and cerebral blood flow. - Your PLATELET COUNT was trending elevated, and given your concerns about risk for cognitive decline, your APO E genetics, your age, and your metabolic health, you should consider checking a D-DIMER and LEIDEN FACTOR V, The goal of these tests it rule our risk for clotting disorder or a heightened risk of cerebral vascular disease.Nootropics and Brain HealthWe refer to NOOTROPICS as a group of supplements that may serve several distinct functions. Participants use NOOTROPICS as cognitive boosters, memory enhancers, or as a group of supplements that can improve focus, motivation, memory, mood, and cognition. If a NOOTROPIC is recommended below, a detailed summary about this recommendation will be offered in the corresponding section of your Guidebook.- Consider starting an OTC form of a CHOLINE supplement. Our favorite brands include ACETYL-CH ACTIVE and PARASYM PLUS. The standard dose of either supplement is 2 capsules per day (or a second dose when you need to be cognitively alert). CHOLINE may help to support the production of acetylcholine (the neurotransmitter associated with cognition). When our clients have an increased risk of cognitive dysfunction, a standard intervention in integrative medicine is to strive to improve CHOLINE levels in the brain. CHOLINE comes in many forms that are outlined in the summary about nootropics.- Consider starting an OTC form of a CHOLINE supplement. Our favorite brands include ACETYL-CH ACTIVE and PARASYM PLUS. The standard dose of either supplement is 2 capsules per day (or a second dose when you need to be cognitively alert). CHOLINE may help to support the production of acetylcholine (the neurotransmitter associated with cognition). When our clients have an increased risk of cognitive dysfunction, a standard intervention in integrative medicine is to strive to improve CHOLINE levels in the brain. CHOLINE comes in many forms that are outlined in the summary about nootropics.- Consider starting LION’S MANE powder or capsule 2-3 x’s/day.- You have reported the use of CPAP or BIPAP for sleep apnea and you are concerned about cognitive decline. Though we are cautious with medicines for neurological health, you may be a good candidate for a prescription of MODAFINIL or PROVIGIL. These medicines are used to improve wakefulness, attention, and focus in those with SLEEP APNEA or who use CPAP. For many, these medicines can be very helpful. This medication requires a prescription. You can ask your PCP to weigh in and offer an Rx, or you can bring your questions to Office Hours and schedule a telemedicine consultation with one of our providers. Additional fees may apply.- You are encouraged to start a supplement called NITRIC BALANCE. The standard dose is 10-20 mL as needed. This supplement boasts a proprietary blend of nutraceuticals that stimulate the production of eNOS and improve blood flow. This supplement is often used as a pre-work out supplement or as an intervention for chronic headaches or migraines.- You are encouraged to start a supplement called NEURO2. The standard dose is 1 capsule, 2 x’s per day. This supplement contains VINPOCETINE and is used to support brain health and cerebral blood flow. VINPOCETINE is a prescription medicine in many countries outside of the USA but can be used as a supplement in the United States.- You are encouraged to start a supplement called NEUROFLAM. The standard dose is 2 capsules, 2x’s per day. This supplement contains a blend of nutraceutical flavonoid compounds that have been shown to be anti-inflammatory and neurologically stimulating. In animal studies, the ingredients in this supplement have been shown to cross the blood brain barrier, offering direct influence on the immune cells of the brain. - Consider starting BRAIN & MEMORY POWER BOOST 2 capsules, 2x’s/day. Your history reports that you are taking a supplement to try and improve your focus. If you choose to take this supplement, you could take this in lieu of what you are taking now. This is a high-quality supplement to support cognition and may compare it to the supplement you are currently using. Work with your physician or memory coach to compare ingredients and quality. When you have completed the supply of the focus supplement you are currently taking, this may be a great alternative. Consider trying it.- Consider starting ACETYL-L-CARNITINE (ALCAR) 500-1000 mg 2x/day.- Consider starting a trial of TRANSFER FACTORS as a means of neutralizing viruses that may be contributing to a chronic inflammatory response. We recommend the brand 4Life TRANSFER FACTOR. The standard dose is two capsules/day. Another brand is called WELLNESS TRANSFER FACTOR, and their standard dose is one capsule 2x’s/day. You can purchase this supplement online. Transfer factors are derived from colostrum, and they serve to activate natural killer cells within our immune system.- Consider starting BRAIN RESCUE III- The starting dose is one packet in the morning for 2 weeks, and then every other day. This supplement is a hallmark intervention for those with a history of brain injury.- You are encouraged to start a supplement called NEUROFLAM (K-46), a product from Apex Energetics. The dose I recommend is 2 capsules, 2x’s/day. Each of the ingredients in this supplement have been shown to cross the blood brain barrier, and they can have a significant impact at calming neuroinflammation and in helping to heal the blood brain barrier. - Consider starting BRAIN RESCUE III- The starting dose is one packet in the morning for 2 weeks, and then every other day. This supplement is recommended for those with a history of malabsorption challenges related to surgical weight loss procedures. Note: This supplement could disrupt sleep as it contains some natural stimulants. You should use the supplement before 2:00 pm. If you need that vitamin B supplement, you should consider an L-METHYLFOLATE supplement. Ask your memory coach for guidance if you have questions.- Please review the label of your current OMEGA-3 supplement. Verify that it is a TRIGLYCERIDE-derived omega-3 supplement vs. an Ethyl Ester supplement. There is a substantial difference in absorption between these two types of omega-3 supplements. If not, please consider a shift to PRO-OMEGA or ULTIMATE OMEGA 2Xby Nordic Naturals. The standard dose is 3 caps per day. - Consider starting PRO-OMEGA or ULTIMATE OMEGA 2X by Nordic Naturals. Two capsules, 2 x’s/day. The maintenance dose is 3 caps per day.- Consider starting GUT-SPECIFIC FISH OIL (MEGA OMEGA). The standard dose is two capsules, 2 x’s/day.- Consider starting ZMA by NOW SPORTS. The standard dose is three capsules/day. This product contains proprietary blends of ZINC, MAGNESIUM and ARGININE that can help support the natural production of TESTOSTERONE.- Consider starting a supplement that contains TRANSFER FACTORS. Transfer factors are derived from colostrum, and they serve to activate natural killer cells within our immune system. They are recommended for those with a history of chronic viral infections. A brand that is often recommended in the functional medicine world is 4Life TRANSFER FACTOR. The standard dose is two capsules/day. Another brand is called WELLNESS TRANSFER FACTOR, and their standard dose is one capsule 2x’s/day. You can purchase these supplements online. - Consider starting a supplement that contains TRANSFER FACTORS. A brand that is often recommended in the functional medicine world is 4Life TRANSFER FACTOR. The standard dose is two capsules/day. Another brand is called WELLNESS TRANSFER FACTOR, and their standard dose is one capsule 2x’s/day. You can purchase this supplement online. Transfer factors are derived from colostrum, and they serve to activate natural killer cells within our immune system. They are recommended for those with a history of chronic viral infections.- Consider starting PRODROMENEURO is 1 mL/day if you purchase liquids, or one soft gel/day if you purchase capsules. - Consider starting THE ONE, MITOCHONDRIAL OPTIMIZER from QuickSilver Scientific. The standard dose is 1 tsp/daily. This is a high-quality antioxidant, containing CoQ10, PQQ and RESVERATROL. - Consider starting PECTASOL-C® by Econugenics. The standard dose is 5 grams per scoop. You are encouraged to start with 1 scoop per day (added to a drink), and if tolerated, increase to 1 scoop 2x’s per day. PECTASOL-C® enters the circulation from the digestive tract and works quickly to bind and block the actions of a biological protein in the body called GALECTIN-3. PECTASOL-C® has been shown to deliver broad-spectrum benefits from cellular regulation to immune response, cardiovascular and kidney function in over 75 published studies. This fiber also serves as a binder that will support our detox interventions.- Consider the prescription medicine called LOW DOSE NALTREXONE (LDN). The standard dosing is between 1- 4.5 mg/day. Th medication is commonly taken an hour before bed. Read the summary in your Guidebook about LDN and consider its use in the treatment of autoimmunity and fibromyalgia. This medication requires a prescription so you will need to consult with your PCP or schedule a TELEMEDICINE consult with a provider from AMFAS. Additional fees may apply. - Consider starting TRU NIAGEN 100-300 mg/day or another NAD+ support supplement called NICOTINOMIDE RIBOSIDE. The standard dosing of this supplement is 100 mg/day.- Consider starting CLEAR WAY COFACTORS 1 capsule, 2-3 x’s/day and consider trying a new morning drink called CRIO BRU CACAO as a way of introducing more high-quality flavonoids into your daily routine.  - Consider starting THERACURMIN HP 1 capsule 2x’s/day. This supplement may help improve arthritic symptoms and help you reduce the need for anti-inflammatory medicines.- Consider starting THERACURMIN HP 1 capsule 2x’s/day. This supplement may help improve arthritic symptoms and help you reduce the need for anti-inflammatory medicines. You may also consider a supplement called NEUROPROTEK®. The standard dose is one capsule 2x’s per day. This supplement contains the flavonoids of Luteolin, Quercetin, and Rutin, and it is recommended to be taken with food when GI symptoms are common triggers of mast cell activation. It too has a LIPOSOMAL FORMULATION, which may enhance it absorption and assimilation into your body.- Consider starting PYCNOGENOL 100-250 mg/day. - Consider starting CBD SYNNERGIES-PN 2 soft gel capsules 2x/day- Consider starting VINPOCETINE 10 mg 2x’s day- Consider starting CS BRAINSENSE; take as directed- Consider starting PROTANDIM 1 tablet/day- Consider starting Dr. Bredesen’s private label supplement called RECODE TYPE II- ATROPHIC. The standard dose is three capsules daily. This supplement is a great nootropic for boosting synaptic function and contains Lion’s Mane 500 mg + ALCAR 300 mg + Gotu Kola 250 mg + Green Coffee Whole Fruit 100 mg + Butchers Broom 150 mg.- Consider starting Dr. Bredesen’s private label supplement called RECODE TYPE III- TOXIC. The standard dose is four capsules at dinner. This supplement is a great detox supplement that contains Vitamin C 750 mg + Selenium 250 mg + Milk Thistle Seed Extract 250 mg + Artichoke Leaf Extract 250 mg + Dandelion Root Extract 200 mg + NAC 200 mg + Taurine 100 mg + Turmeric Rhizome Extract 25 mg + Barberry Root Bark 25 mg + Chicory Roasted Root 25 mg + Guggul Resin Extract 25 mg + Resveratrol 25 mg.- Consider starting Dr. Bredesen’s private label supplement called RECODE DAILY OMEGA-3. The standard dosing ranges from 2-6 capsules per day. The supplement contains EPA 600 mg + DHA 400 mg/2 capsules. I spent some time researching the OMEGA supplement from Dr. Bredesen’s company but the details about the OMEGA-3 are not well published. Verify that this supplement is a triglyceride-based OMEGA-3 supplement, and not an ethyl-ester based OMEGA-3. I have included a summary about what is important when choosing an OMEGA-3 supplement later in this summary.- Consider starting Dr. Bredesen’s private label supplement called RECODE DAILY MULTIVITAMIN supplement. Standard dosing ranges from two capsules per day. The supplement contains Vitamin A, C, D3 (4000 iu), E, K2 (as MK-7), most of the B vitamins, plus Zinc 15 mg + Alpha Lipoic Acid 100 mg + CoQ10 (ubiquinone) 100 + Atlantic Kelp Extract 37.5 mg + Trace Minerals (Redmond’s Sea Salt) 75 mg + Tocotrienols (10% [2.5 mg] tocopherols) 25 mg per serving.- Consider starting Dr. Bredesen’s private label supplement called RECODE AM DAILY BALANCE supplement. The standard dose is two scoops mixed in water. This supplement contains Fibersol, Fibregum (acacia gum), Lethicin (sunflower), Beet Root Juice, Bacopa Monnieri, Beta Glucan, L-glutathione, Calcium BHB, Sodium BHB, Magnesium Threonate, NAD+, and Choline 50 mg/serving.- Consider starting Dr. Bredesen’s private label supplement called RECODE PM DAILY BALANCE. The standard dose is two scoops mixed in water. This supplement contains Calcium and Magnesium, Fibersol, Fibregum (acacia gum), Ashwagandha, Chamomile, 5-HTP Hawthorn Leaf, Lemon Balm, Passionflower, Valerian Root, and Melatonin 1 mg/serving. If you choose to use PROGESTERONE to optimize female hormones, you may not need other herps or botanicals to help calm you at night.- Consider starting Dr. Bredesen’s private label supplement called RECODE PM DAILY PROBIOTIC. This supplement contains Fructo-Oligosaccharides, Lactobacillus Helveticus (R0052), Bifidobacteria Longum (R0175), Lactobacillus Acidophilus (La-14), Bifidobacteria Bifidum (Bb-06), and Bifidobacteria Breve (Bb-03). Recommendations for alternating use of probiotics are growing. If you are experiencing good bowel health, you could simplify your supplement schedule and discontinue this supplement.- You are taking the ATP FUEL supplement. This supplement contains Vitamin E, Calcium, Phosphorus, Magnesium, a proprietary blend of amino acids, Alpha-Ketoglutaric acid, L-Tyrosine, Carnipure®, and CoQ10. Hormone Optimization Can Improve Your Brain FunctionMany individuals do not realize that there is an optimal hormone level for brain health. When hormone levels drop, brain function is diminished. This section focuses on the importance of your hormone levels and their potential impact on brain health. Thyroid Function and Brain HealthYour baseline TSH was_. The goal level for optimizing cognition is 0.4 - 2.5 uIU/mL. Your baseline FREE T3 was_. The goal level for optimizing cognition is 3.2 – 4.2 uIU/mL. Your baseline FREE T4 was_. The goal level for optimizing cognition is 1.3 – 1.8 uIU/mL.  Your baseline REVERSE T3 was_. The goal level for optimizing cognition is < 15 uIU/mL.Your baseline THYROID PEROXIDASE (TPO) antibody level was_. TPO is an antibody produced by your immune system targeting your thyroid gland. When the TPO level is >34, we begin to consider your risk for an autoimmune disorder called HASHIMOTO’S THYROIDITIS. Your THYROGLOBULIN ANTIBODY (TgAb) level was_. When TgAb levels are >1, this is an additional sign that you have risk for a variant of HASHIMOTOS THYROIDITIS. When either of the thyroid antibody levels are flagged as elevated, you may be a candidate for additional diagnostic tests or interventions to help settle an overactive immune system. - Your thyroid markers fall within optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- Your TSH level is reflective of obvious HYPOTHYROIDISM. Please check with your memory coach to verify that this level was reported accurately.- When considering the risk of cognitive dysfunction, thyroid support is essential. Though your TSH is not necessarily abnormal, it may not be optimal for cognitive health. Those with additional symptoms (chronically cold or those with temperature dysregulation, hair loss, dry skin, struggles to lose weight, constipation, etc.) may consider a low dose of thyroid medicine. This would require a prescription from your PCP, or a TELEMEDICINE consultation with a provider from AMFAS. Additional fees may apply. Thyroid function is essential for optimal cognition and your TSH level suggests there is an opportunity to optimize. Please schedule a time to consult with your primary care provider about your TSH level. An optimal TSH for cognitive function is 0.4 - 2.5 uIU/mL. Your TSH exceeds the optimal parameters for cognitive function and your history suggests you take thyroid medicine. You may need to increase your dose.  Your TSH exceeds the optimal parameters for cognitive function and your history suggests you take thyroid medicine. You may need to increase your dose.  - A superficial review of your THYROID FUNCTION would not predict major concerns, but your TSH and REVERSE T3 are trending the wrong way. They may be suggestive of a process of impaired thyroid function. Your FREE T3 level was _ pg/mL. The optimal range is > 3.6 pg/mL. Your REVERSE T3 level is elevated at_ ng/dL. These values fall outside of the optimal parameters for thyroid function, and you may be a candidate for a trial of a prescription medicine that optimizes these thyroid hormone levels. You may benefit from a prescription should you choose to optimize thyroid function. Please schedule a time to discuss this recommendation with your PCP or schedule a TELEMEDICINE consultation with the medical director at AMFAS to talk about your options. - An elevated REVERSE T3 level may be suggestive of a process that impairs functional thyroid. REVERSE T3 is a non-functional stereoisomer of T3. This has the potential of blocking FREE T3 receptors and diminishing the effectiveness of FREE T3. Though the precise reason your body makes more REVERSE T3 is unknown, it can be related to low levels of VITAMIN B12, IRON, FERRITIN, or elevated levels of CORTISOL. You may consider testing IRON and FERRITIN levels at your quarterly blood draw. Given your history of chronic fatigue, you may be a candidate for FREE T3 therapy. You may consider a trial with CYTOMEL 5 mcg/day. This is a prescription medicine and needs a consultation with your primary care provider. If you prefer to complete a telemedicine consultancy to obtain a prescription, please work with your coach. Additional fees may apply.- You may have some symptoms of AUTOIMMUNE THYROIDITIS and additional autoimmunity testing may be helpful. Because you have laboratory markers of AUTOIMMUNE THYROIDITIS, you may choose to research a compounded medication called LOW DOSE NALTREXONE (LDN). Information about LDN is provided later in your Guidebook. Your family doctor may also provide detailed information if you think this may be an intervention that you would like to implement. If your family physician is unfamiliar with LOW DOSE NALTREXONE, you may benefit from a TELEMEDICINE consultation with one of the providers at AMFAS.- You are also encouraged to begin learning about the AUTOIMMUNE PALEO DIET. You can learn more about this dietary approach by attending Office Hours.Female Hormone Levels and Brain Health Your baseline FSH level was_ mIU/mL. Optimal ranges of FSH are dependent on age, menstrual or menopausal status and brain health. If you are not menopausal, the FSH level tends to be < 11. If you are menopausal, we may consider attempting to lower your FSH level closer to 20 mIU/mL, but this depends on the specific goals of hormone optimization.Your baseline ESTRADIOL (E2) was_ pg/mL. In women who are still menstruating, E2 ranges can vary from 50-500 pg/mL, depending on when the lab was checked in the context of the menstrual cycle. In menopausal women, many researchers suggest optimal ranges should fall between 50-150 pg/mL. Your baseline PROGESTERONE was_ ng/mL. Some researchers suggest optimal ranges may be from 1-5 ng/mL. Some researchers are impressed that the optimal level is higher, closer to 5-7 ng/mL. If you are a poor sleeper, or if you struggle with anxiety, you may consider your optimal range as the upper threshold.Your baseline TOTAL TESTOSTERONE was_ ng/dL. Many women feel best when TESTOSTERONE ranges from 40-70 ng/dL. Your baseline ESTRONE (E1) level was _ and we believe the optimal range to be < 200 pg/mL.Your baseline PROLACTIN level was _ and we believe the optimal value to be near 13.75 pg/mL.Your baseline LUTEINIZING HORMONE (LH) level was _ and we believe the optimal level to be 22 mIU/mL. Again, the goal range is based on your age and menopausal status.Your baseline SEX-HORMONE BINDING GLOBULIN (SHBG) level was _, and we believe the optimal range to be < 75 pg/mL in women.Your baseline DIHYDROTESTOSTERONE (DHT) level was _ and we believe the optimal range to be < 30 ng/dL.- There is a particularly good argument for you to consider the use of HORMONE REPLACEMENT THERAPY. Sex hormones associated with reproductive and sexual health, but they are also essential for cognitive and brain health. ESTRADIOL receptors are located on every cell of the body and the brain. When ESTRADIOL levels are optimized, cognitive health often improves. Androgens like TESTOSTERONE have anti-inflammatory, mood boosting benefits and may lessen the risk of osteoporosis. PROGESTERONE is very neurologically active and may help balance estrogen dominance, improve sleeping patterns, and calm anxiety. There are several reasons you may consider the use of hormone replacement therapy (HRT). Please refer to the section on hormone replacement therapy and its potential role for optimizing your health.- Though you may have used hormone replacement in the past, or you may be using hormone replacement currently, your current hormone levels may still not be considered optimal for cognitive health. Please refer to the section on hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and schedule a consultation with your primary care provider to talk about opportunities to optimize your hormone replacement therapy.- You have reported a personal history of BREAST CANCER. Traditional medicine suggests hormone therapy after breast cancer to be contraindicated, but emerging research now questions that clinical position. Many women with a personal history of breast cancer are embracing hormone optimization, especially in the context of progressive brain fog, memory loss, or other quality of life issues. Hormone optimization should only be done after thoughtful consideration. More information can be found in The Enhance Protocol Guidebook.- PROGESTERONE optimization is an amazing way to improve INSOMNIA and to calm ANXIETY. PROGESTERONE has also been used in many clinical trials for those with a history of concussion or TBI because of its calming influence on the brain. You have reported a history of breast cancer. Hormone optimization should only be initiated after thoughtful consideration of your historical breast cancer. Informed consent is required before treatment is initiated. Consider a telemedicine consultation to discuss the risks and benefits of PROGESTERONE.  - In your health history you provided, you identified challenges with either DEPRESSION or ANXIETY. Hormone optimization is a fantastic way to address depression and/or anxiety. This may factor into your decision about hormone optimization.- In your health history, you identified a history of insomnia for which you are taking a prescription antidepressant to help with sleep disorder. Consider the use of PROMETRIUM 100-200 mg/night. It is a very safe, neurologically active hormone that helps promote improved sleep.- Sex hormones optimization may lower your risk for frequent URINARY TRACT INFECTIONS related to atrophic vaginitis. Male Hormone Levels and Brain HealthYour baseline TOTAL TESTOSTERONE level was _ ng/dL, and optimal level is suggested to be closer to 700 ng/dL. Your baseline FREE TESTOSTERONE level was reported as _ pg/ml.  Regardless of the ‘normal’ values posted on your lab results, FREE TESTOSTERONE is the male hormone that is active. If your TOTAL TESTOSTERONE is normal, but your active TESTOSTERONE is low, you will likely experience some symptoms of Low T. You want your FREE TESTOSTERONE level to be at the 50-75th percentile of the normal range. With most labs, the normal range is 6-18 pg/mL. Therefore, the optimal range is 12-15 pg/mL.  Your baseline SEX-HORMONE BINDING GLOBULIN (SHBG) level was _. We believe the optimal range to be < 45 pg/mL.Your baseline PSA level was_ and we believe the optimal range to be < 4.0. Your baseline LUTEINIZING HORMONE (LH) level was _ and we believe the optimal level is closer to 5.1 miU/mL.Your baseline FOLLICLE STIMULATING HORMONE (FSH) level was _ and we believe the optimal level to be closer to 7.0 miU/mL.Your baseline PROLACTIN level was _ and we believe the optimal value to be close to 11.25 pg/mL.Your baseline DIHYDROTESTOSTERONE (DHT) level was _ and we believe the optimal range to be < 52 ng/dL.Your baseline ESTRADIOL (E2) level was _ and we believe the optimal range to be < 25 pg/mL.Your baseline ESTRONE (E1) level was _ and we believe the optimal range to be < 60 pg/mL.Your baseline PROGESTERONE level was _ and we believe the optimal value to be close to 0.8 pg/mL.- Your FREE TESTOSTERONE level may not be optimal for cognitive health. Dr. Mark Gordon’s protocol for individuals with a TBI addresses the importance of FREE TESTOSTERONE (biologically available and active testosterone) as a highly active neurological hormone. Many practitioners view TESTOSTERONE levels within a very narrow context of sexual or reproductive health. However, we view your FREE TESTOSTERONE level as essential to your neurological health! Your TESTOSTERONE level may not be optimal for cognitive health, and you may be a candidate for TESTOSTERONE OPTIMIZATION therapy. This may be worth some additional discussion in Office Hours.   - An excellent place to start to optimize FREE TESTOSTERONE levels include optimizing your diet, increase healthy fats, adding resistance training or weightlifting to your exercise routine, and use of the supplement 7-KETO DHEA which is discussed in the section about DHEA. - Your elevated SHBG may also be contributory to a trending low FREE TESTOSTERONE level. Depending on a broader assessment of how you feel (brain foggy, chronic fatigue, loss of muscle mass, weight gain in the belly, poor exercise recovery, low libido or erectile dysfunction, mood disorder, etc.), this may be an intervention that merits more discussion. Testosterone optimization may be particularly helpful for those with a history of head injury and/or a loss of consciousness. Please bring these questions to Office Hours and discuss them with our medical director, Randy Vawdrey.- You may also consider starting ZMA by Now Sports. The standard dose is 2-3 capsules/day. This product contains proprietary blends of ZINC, MAGNESIUM and ARGININE that can help support the natural production of TESTOSTERONE and to limit the aromatization of TESTOSTERONE to ESTRADIOL.- You may also consider starting SAW PALMETTO 500 – 1000 mg/day. This supplement helps to block 5-AR which may help raise your FREE TESTOSTERONE by blocking the conversion of FREE TESTOSTERONE to other hormones like DHT and ESTRADIOL.- You may also consider starting DIINDOLYLMETHANE (DIM) 200-300 mg 2x’s per day. This supplement may help to lower SHBG and improve your FREE TESTOSTERONE levels.- Your TESTOSTERONE level is not optimal for cognitive health. However, given your history of PROSTATE CANCER, you may have been instructed to avoid TESTOSTERONE replacement, or you take a medication like LUPRON to ‘block’ the effects of TESTOSTERONE in the body. More information may be needed before an optimization strategy can be offered.- Your PSA level exceeds the conservative threshold and may merit additional investigation. Though it is common for men to experience rising PSA levels as they age, you are encouraged to share your PSA level with your primary care provider. Most providers appreciate updated lab results, and your level may prompt a discussion about appropriate prostate screening over time.Neurologically Active Hormones that Support Brain HealthYour baseline PREGNENOLONE level was_ and an optimal level is 150-200 ng/dL. PREGNENOLONE is considered the ‘mother of all hormones’ and it is very neurologically active. There is an abundance of research suggesting its use in stabilizing or preventing cognitive dysfunction. Optimizing this level is essential for optimal cognition.   Masterclass https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/masterclass/sections/423837/lessons/1625469 - Your PREGNENOLONE level falls within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- Please consider starting PREGNENOLONE 100 mg each night.- Please consider starting PREGNENOLONE 100 mg each night.Your baseline DHEA-s level is_ and an optimal level is at least > 150 ng/dL. We recommend supplementation if you level falls below 150 ng/dL, but many clinicians who practice functional medicine suggest the DHEA-s level should be at least 200 ng/dL in women, and 250 ng/dL in men. DHEA-s is a valuable neuroactive steroid that may help to reduce neuroinflammation.  Masterclass https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/masterclass/sections/423837/lessons/1587283- Your DHEA-s level falls within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- Please consider starting 7-KETO DHEA 100 mg at night.- Please consider starting 7-KETO DHEA 50 mg at night.- Did you know that your DHEA-s levels are directly correlated with coronary artery disease? The higher your DHEA-s level, the lower your risk of heart disease. This is another convincing reason to optimize your DHEA-s level!- Your DHEA level is sub-optimal for cognitive health, and we recommend you consider taking 7-KETO DHEA 50 mg at night to optimize this level. Since you have a history of PROSTATE CANCER you may have been told that TESTOSTERONE optimization is contraindicated.  More information is needed before an optimization strategy can be offered. Adrenal Hormones That Influence Brain HealthYour first morning CORTISOL level was_ and an optimal level is > 15 ng/dL.- This level falls within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- Consider starting a supplement called THE ONE; MITOCHONDRIAL OPTIMIZER; 1 tsp each morning.  Since you are currently using a STATIN, there is added weight to the recommendation of using an antioxidant like those included in THE ONE; MITOCHONDRIAL OPTIMIZER.Please Consider Additional Screening Tests Related to Brain HealthThe extensive panel of labs completed when you start The Enhance Protocol® is an excellent start to your health screening process to improve cognitive function. However, it is only a start! There are other screening tests that we recommend to better identify silent risk cognitive impairment. Though this list is not intended to be comprehensive, it is intended to help you to start thinking about the relationship of these tests to your brain health. Consider the following summary and bring your questions to office hours. If you need a prescription for any of these tests, please consult with your primary care provider or schedule a telemedicine consultation with one of our medical providers. Additional fees may apply. Advanced Concussion Recovery Screenings- If you would like to determine if you have unresolved brain inflammation from a historical concussion or traumatic brain injury, we recommend you complete a mood and symptom questionnaire, balance board testing, a VOMS testing, RightEye™ Testing, a number to other screenings as it relates to your symptoms. The costs associated with these tests vary based on individual need. Advanced Cardiovascular Testing- If you take a STATIN medication to lower cholesterol, or if your doctor suggests you take other cholesterol lowering medication, then we recommend you complete a coronary artery calcium scan. A cholesterol panel offers little predictive value of your true cardiac risk. Cholesterol levels are a better predictor of metabolic syndrome, an unhealthy diet, or compromised liver health. If you want a better predictor of vascular health to help you decide if you should continue STATIN therapy, please consider the following:- Coronary Artery Calcium Score (CAC)- A CAC score can help quantify your actual risk for atherosclerotic build-up in the coronary arteries. The CAC score of 0–99 is very low risk. A score of 100–299 reflects moderately increased risk, and a score of 300+ is severely increased risk. - D-Dimer, Leiden Factor 5, and Galectin-3 testing- These lab tests help to identify additional inflammatory risk related to clotting disorders and heart disease.- Continuous Blood Pressuring Monitoring- High blood pressure is a major contributor of cognitive deficits. If you are taking blood pressure medicine and you still have episodes of high blood pressure, then we recommend you do a 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure reading. Cone Beam CT Scan (CBCT) of your mouth- If you have a history of at least 1 root canal, history of a fractured tooth, several crowns or old dental amalgams, or if you have a complex history of dental challenges, gingivitis, periodontal disease, we encourage you to complete at CBCT. This test is a more sensitive x-ray than traditional plain film x-rays done at your annual dental screening. The mouth is a reservoir of very inflammatory bacteria, and if you have a hidden infection, or cavitation, or a mild abscess that is ‘silently simmering,’ it can turn in inflammation that negatively impacts your brain health. Advanced Gastrointestinal Screening- If you have irritable bowel syndrome, celiac disease, persistent acid reflux, eosinophilic esophagitis, colitis, chronic constipation or persistent diarrhea, then additional gastrointestinal screening may be indicated. More information is needed before the best testing options can be identified. Overnight Oximetry or a Full Sleep Study- 25% of all individuals at risk for cognitive impairment have disordered sleep or low oxygen levels at night. Sometimes, this is an obstructive sleep apnea, and other times, it is a non-obstructive central apnea. Failure to get good sleep at night impairs the glymphatic system and can negatively impact brain health. If you have sleep disturbance, you take sleeping medicine (OTC or prescriptive), if you snore, or if you are overweight, you are encouraged to screen for sleep apnea and nighttime hypoxia. Chronic Inflammation Can Lead to Inflammation in Your Brain Many individuals do not realize that there is a relationship to inflammation in the body and brain health. If you are in a constate of inflammation, the brain will be negatively impacted. If one of the lab tests shown below exceeds the threshold for optimal health (brain health included), a treatment intervention may be recommended. You are encouraged to take these considerations back to your primary care provider or schedule a telemedicine consultation with a provider form A Mind For All Seasons. Your baseline hsCRP is_. The goal is to have a very low level, at least < 1 mg/L. hsCRP is a general marker of an inflammatory response. Systemic inflammation can negatively impact brain health. Please review the potential causes of an elevated hsCRP and work to resolve triggers of systemic inflammation. - This level falls within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- There are many potential causes form low grade systemic inflammation. The chart below will help you identify potential contributors. You may also find insight into triggers of inflammation by reviewing our membership site. - Some of our clients are interested in ‘brain-specific’ markers of inflammation that can be more predictive of Alzheimer’s or other neurodegenerative diseases. You may choose to complete this test if you have the APO E4 genetics or a strong family history of Alzheimer’s. This inflammatory panel is called the NeuroCode test.   Masterclass https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/masterclass/sections/387364/lessons/1441406 - GI CHALLENGES can be a common starting point for chronic inflammatory conditions. You are encouraged to have an open discussion with your health coach to talk through dietary interventions or other strategies that may help to calm systemic inflammation. Your coach can talk you through various testing options if you are concerned about GI health.- You have listed a previous history of ROOT CANALS, and these kinds of procedures are notoriously risky for harboring   occult infection, cavitation or other inflammatory challenges that can compromise brain health. Please request a CONE BEAM CT SCAN at your next dental consultation.  - You reported a history of CHRONIC or PERSISTENT ALLERGIES. Though there may be many ‘triggers’ for persistent allergies (environmental allergens, mold exposures, animal dander, pollens, etc.), the challenge may be more complex and may be associated with GUT DYSBIOSIS or OCCULT DENTAL CHALLENGES. The sinus cavity is very close to the brain, and persistent sinus congestion that is unresponsive to environmental intervention(s) should prompt you to consider additional triggers of the congestion.- Consider starting a supplement called ULTRA D 5000. The standard dose is 1 tsp/day. This supplement contains a compliment of fat-soluble vitamins and a proprietary blend of herbs that may help to calm systemic inflammation. - Routine alcohol intake is a potential ‘INFLAMMOGEN’ that can increase your hsCRP. You may optimize this inflammatory marker by simply discontinuing alcohol use. This is another good reason to avoid alcohol. ??- DIETARY CHOICES are one of the simplest ways to calm systemic inflammation. You are encouraged to embrace The Enhance Protocol dietary recommendations and learn more about how to eat to optimize brain health. Participation in Office Hours is one of the best ways to get specific guidance on dietary recommendations that calm inflammation.- Due to your METHYOTREXATE use, you continue to have a borderline insufficient FOLIC ACID level despite aggressive supplementation. Due to your CELIAC disease, and your use of NSAIDS and METHOTREXATE, you are likely a candidate for a trial of LEUCOVORIN 5-10 mg per day. This is a prescription medication that is used when METHOTREXATE or CHEMOTHERAPY impairs the GI tract’s ability to absorb folic acid. This is a prescription medicine and will need to come from your PCP or prescribing provider. If needed, you can consider scheduling a TELEMEDICINE CONSULTATION. Additional fees may apply. Your baseline A/G RATIO is_ and the ratio should be close to 2.0. A sub-optimal albumin-to-globulin Ratio (A/G RATIO) has many potential contributors, but common contributors can often be optimized by improving your diet and your gut health. For a detailed explanation of A/G RATIO, and to learn how you can optimize your A/G RATIO, please refer to this section on A/G RATIO and the section on Gut Health in your Enhance Guidebook.- This level falls within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- Your A/G RATIO is close to the optimal parameter. We encourage you to include a good dietary protein source at each meal to help an optimal A/G RATIO.- Please make sure you are getting 100 grams of PROTEIN in your daily diet. This will help improve your A/G RATIO. - Most practitioners suggest that a skewed A/G RATIO is either suggestive of a PROTEIN DEFICIENCY in your diet, a SYSTEMIC INFLAMMATORY response, or both. To help improve your A/G RATIO, you could start with an intentional effort to eat more high-quality protein every day. - Have you ever used a probiotic supplement? One of our favorite brands is MEGASPOREBIOTIC. The standard dose is 2 capsules daily.- There are other interventions you may choose to embrace to improve your gut health. Even if you don’t feel like you have poor gut health, your A/G RATIO suggests there may be some benefit to optimize. You may also be a candidate for other interventions that include using supplements to improve GI HEALTH. This includes embracing a weekly VEGGIE MASH-UP, SCFA supplements, PREBIOTICS, PROBIOTICS, and POSTBIOTICS. This is a topic you are encouraged to discuss in Office Hours with Randy or another coach from AMFAS.- Routine ALCOHOL intake is an additional predictor of an imbalanced A/G RATIO. ALCOHOL inflames the GI tract and often causes gastritis.  Even if you consume ALCOHOL in moderation, you run the risk of inducing an inflammatory response in the GI tract and altering your A/G RATIO. You may help to correct this imbalance by complete abstinence from ALCOHOL. ??URIC ACID is a systemic marker of inflammation, and when elevated, it may be contributory to high blood pressure, chronic gout, symptoms of chronic arthritis, neurodegenerative diseases, and other conditions related to systemic  inflammation. Your URIC ACID level was_ mg/dL, and many practitioners like to see this value < 6.5 mg/dL.- This level falls within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- There are many lifestyle interventions you can employ to help lower your URIC ACID level. These include reduction or avoidance of alcohol, reduced process foods and salt intake, avoiding high fructose corn syrup, staying well hydrated, etc. More information is needed to offer personalized, constructive feedback. - You may also consider a broader discussion about the potential risks and benefits of a prescription medicine called ALLOPURINOL. This is a topic you may choose to address during Office Hours with Randy Vawdrey. This medicine is typically used to prevent GOUT attacks, but many providers offer this medication to clients to help lower URIC ACID LEVELS where there is elevated risk for heart disease or neurodegenerative disease.- ALCOHOL is a major contributor to elevated URIC ACID LEVELS and is a likely contributor of cognitive decline, metabolic syndrome, and weight gain. You may consider abstaining from ALCOHOL until your next set of labs to see if you can improve URIC ACID LEVEL naturally and avoid adding another medication.- You have reported a history of GOUT, which is usually exacerbated by elevated URIC ACID LEVELS. Please visit with your memory coach and your primary care provider about the lifestyle changes you can make to lower your risk of a future GOUT attack. 
The Symptoms of a Historical Concussion May Be ChronicIn your health history, you reported a historical head injury and many troublesome neurological symptoms. Many individuals may not think they have experienced a serious concussion because they did not experience a loss of consciousness associated with a head injury. However, we now understand concussion and post-concussion syndrome much better than we did 10 years ago. Some of the symptoms that you are experiencing may be related to chronic, post-concussive syndrome. One of the primary challenges associated with concussions or TBI’s is that they can initiate an inflammatory response that leads to poor brain health, lower oxygen delivery to the brain, activation of the brain’s immune system, a disrupted blood brain barrier, a dysfunctional pituitary gland, and a host of other metabolic challenges in the brain.  * Masterclass https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/masterclass/sections/387365/lessons/1441412- Many individuals struggle with long-term, bothersome neurological symptoms. This can include ringing in the ears (tinnitus), chronic or persistent headaches, migraines, vertigo, dizziness, anxiety, depression, chronic fatigue, etc. Each of these symptoms may be related to a condition called DYSAUTONOMIA, which is a common and lingering challenge of historical concussions.  Masterclass https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/masterclass/sections/387365/lessons/1441408 - If you would like to determine if you have unresolved brain inflammation for a historical concussion or TBI, we recommend you learn more about a VOMS assessment. This simple, 5-minute test helps to identify unresolved symptoms related to post-concussion syndrome. - If you are distant from our Boise headquarters and a local consultation is not readily available, you can watch a brief video of a VOMS assessment online. If you watch the video and then pause during the training, you can administer the assessment on yourself to see if it induces troublesome symptoms. If you make your symptoms of brain fog worse, you should consider a live consultation with an expert in concussion recovery.  - You can find this short video on YouTube at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CJF6kJcFGqE&t=102s - Please come to Office Hours and ask about our CONCUSSION PROTOCOL to learn how you can incorporate more home-based interventions into your daily routine. We can offer you several different support tools to aide you in your recovery.- Since head injuries and the ‘wear and tear of life’ can lead to continuous state of oxidative stress, the short-term use of a high-dose antioxidant may prove to be very helpful. - Consider embracing a FLAVONOID CHALLENGE using a concentrated dose of flavonoid called TUMERO XL. This supplement contains a robust dose of turmeric and black pepper mixed in an MCT oil. It is very well absorbed and can really help to calm systemic inflammation and brain fog. The recommended dosing for this challenge is 10 mL 2-3 x’s/day for 30 days. - You may consider taking an ANTIOXIDANT CHALLENGE using either TRIZOMAL GLUTATHONE 5 ml 3x’s per day or THE ONE: MITOCHONDRIAL OPTIMIZER, 1 tsp 2x’s per day. Each of these challenges can be embraced anywhere from 2-4 weeks. - Each of these supplements are liquid, liposomal supplements that can help to improve absorption and efficacy. - Each of the supplements listed are of the highest quality and all have 3rd party verification of dosing and quality as an additional value for customers. - Everybody responds to supplements in unique ways. What may be very impactful for one person may not be very impactful to another. Therefore, we have identified 3 different anti-inflammatory and antioxidant supplements that have shown to be very beneficial when taken in higher doses over a short period of time. - Bring your questions about the ANTIOXIDANT CHALLENGE to Office Hours and we can provide more guidance.  - Regardless of the type of brain injury, all concussions (even those seemingly insignificant concussions) result in a loss of oxygen delivery to the brain. Unfortunately, this is when the brain requires the most oxygen to recover! Because of this loss of oxygen, clients with symptoms tend to heal faster when they use Exercise With Oxygen Therapy (EWOT) or Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy (HBOT). - Consider the option of using these therapies in your area or consider taking a trip to Boise Idaho so you can experience these therapies at the AMFAS headquarters. We have learned that many individuals like to try these therapies before committing them to long-term treatment. - If you are a poor sleeper, consider a trial of a prescription medication called PROGESTERONE. We recommend this be a bioidentical hormone, not a synthetic progestin. This can be used in both men and women! We often use this medicine as a part of our post-concussion syndrome treatments. - PROGESTERONE was used in several large, hospital-based clinical trials for the acute treatment of traumatic brain injuries. PROGESTERONE helps to calm chemical toxicity in the brain by activating GABA receptors. - Many individuals who have used PROGESTERONE notice an improvement in their sleep quality and a reduction of anxiety.- This medicine requires a prescription. You can learn more about the use of PROGESTERONE by attending Office Hours.  - Your need for METHYLPHENIDATE may be related to a head injury. We believe that you can strengthen your ability to focus with enough of the right interventions. - The primary outcome of a head injury, a concussion, or a TBI, is the immediate loss of oxygen delivery to brain tissue (also called HYPOXIA). Tragically, a diminished delivery of blood flow after a head injury can perpetuate the symptoms for a long time after the concussion and lead to symptoms of ADD or ADHD. This is an excellent reason to consider a course of HYPERBARIC TREATMENTS (HBOT). Come to Office Hours with Randy Vawdrey to learn more about the nuances of HBOT. 
Other Insights From Your Lab WorkThere may be other risk factors identified in your lab work that should be factored into your efforts to improve brain health. We have summarized these challenges below. Blood Counts and Risk for AnemiaAs a part of our testing, we completed a COMPLETE BLOOD COUNT. Your Red Blood Cell count (RBC) was_, your HEMOGLOBIN was_, your HEMATOCRIT was_, and your PLATELET count was _. - These markers fall within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- At least one of these variables may be suggestive that you are trending towards ANEMIA. This puts the brain at risk by limiting the delivery of oxygen to the brain.- Your MCV (a condition called MACROCYTOSIS) was elevated. The elevated MCV level may be related to the use of ALCOHOL, or it may indicate you have stomach-related challenges like acid reflux. However, it may also be related to other factors and contributors. One of our medical providers would be happy to talk this over with you and offer additional interventions. Please schedule a telemedicine consultation if you want more support. Otherwise, you can address this with your primary care provider.Risk for Blood Clots and Cerebral Vascular DiseaseWe checked a D-DIMER level which was elevated at _ mg/L. The D-DIMER has more top-of-mind awareness since the COVID pandemic. If you are at risk for neurodegenerative disorder from vascular risk factors (heart disease, stroke, or blood clot) and you are not currently taking an anticoagulant like ELIQUIS or XARELTO (and many others) you may consider starting a few OTC supplements to lower your risk of blood clots. - You are encouraged to start a supplement called NITRIC BALANCE. The standard dose is 1-2 tsp 2x’s day. This supplement is a rapid acting liposomal preparation that contains VINPOCETINE and other nutraceuticals that support dilation of your blood vessels and improved circulation and blood flow.- You are encouraged to start a supplement called NEURO2. The standard dose is 1 capsule, 2 x’s per day. This supplement is a capsule that contains VINPOCETINE and other nutraceuticals that support vasodilation and blood flow.- If you have had a historical blood clot, or you are at high risk for vascular issues, you may consider checking your FACTOR V LEIDEN genetics. - Your PLATELET count is suboptimal but there is no obvious contributor listed in your history. If you are taking any medications (NSAIDS, acid reducers, seizure medications, etc.), these can contribute to a low-trending PLATELET count. - Consider the CYREX ARRAY 5 panel to rule out predictive autoimmunity against platelets and neuro tissues.Your White Blood Cell count WBC was_, your ABSOLUTE NEUTROPHIL count was_, and your ABSOLUTE LYMPHOCYTE count was_. These cell counts represent a generalized reflection of your immune response at the time of your lab tests. - These markers fall within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- At least one of these values is ELEVATED and may reflect an active immune response. We encourage you to consult with your primary care provider about these values. - At least one of these values is LOWER than expected and may be suspicious for a weakened immune response. This may be a one-time result in your current, or it may be a pattern that shows up persistently. More information is needed. When WBC counts are persistently low, it may suggest a weakened immune response to common viruses or bacteria. I would be happy to offer some potential interventions, especially if you are one that get sick often. Please schedule a telemedicine consultation if you want more support. Otherwise, you can address this with your primary care provider.- At least one of these values is ELEVATED and may reflect an active immune response and more testing is recommended. When WBC and ABSOLUTE LYMPHOCYTES are elevated, it is suggestive of an underlying viral infection. Given your history of HSV II and SHINGLES, there is reasonable likely hood that persistent HSV activation. - At least one of these values is LOWER than expected and may be suspicious for a weakened immune response. We encourage you to consult with your primary care provider about these values.- Consider a T & B LYMPHOCYTE DIFFERENTIAL and a QUANTATATIVE IMMUNOGLOBULINS (A/E/G/M) PANEL to evaluate the health of barrier membranes and to evaluate the reactivity of your innate and antibody immune reactivity. This is considered specialty testing and is not included in The Enhance Protocol panel of labs.- You may be a candidate for additional immune strengthening interventions such as X-VIROMIN, BIOFILM CLR and CAT’S CLAW ELITE.  You may benefit from additional information about chronic viral infections and ways to strengthen the immune system when immune exhaustion may be an issue. Please join Office Hours and bring up this topic with our medical director, Randy Vawdrey.- After you complete that testing, may benefit from a 3–6-month trial of daily VALACYCLOVIR 1 gram/day. This is a prescription medication that will need to be called in to your local pharmacy if you choose to start this medication.Your baseline ELECTROLYTE levels were as follows; SODIUM was_, POTASSIUM was_, CHLORIDE was_, CALCIUM was_. If any of these values fall outside of the optimal parameters, follow up is essential. There may be many potential reasons for this to occur (dehydration, supplementation, medications, protein levels, etc.). We encourage you to review these values with your primary care provider.- These markers fall within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- At least one of these values falls outside of the optimal values. There may be many potential reasons for this to occur (dehydration or fluid status, supplementation, medications, protein levels, kidney function, etc.). We encourage you to review these values with your primary care provider.An eGFR of_ and a SERUM CREATININE of_ are markers of kidney function.- These markers fall within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- Your markers of kidney function are not troublesome, and no specific recommendation is offered. However, we always recommend a very intentional effort to stay well hydrated and to be cautious of anti-inflammatory medications such as ASA, IBUPROFEN, NAPROXEN, ALEVE, MELOXICAM and CELEBREX because they can damage the kidneys.- Your markers of kidney function are trending towards some concern. Where possible, you should avoid anti-inflammatory medications such as ASA, IBUPROFEN, NAPROXEN, ALEVE, MELOXICAM and CELEBREX to avoid ongoing damage to the kidneys. Adequate hydration is another factor that predicts good kidney health. Please share your lab results with your family physician.- Your kidney markers suggest you have a more advanced kidney disease. Where possible, you should avoid anti-inflammatory medications such as ASA, IBUPROFEN, NAPROXEN, ALEVE, MELOXICAM and CELEBREX. These medications can advance kidney disease. Adequate hydration is another factor that predicts good kidney health. Please share your lab results with your family physician.Your metabolic panel revealed 3 LIVER FUNCTION TEST (LFT’s) results. LFT’s can be a sign of trending inflammation in the liver or gall bladder. Your baseline ALT value is_. Your baseline ALK-Phos was_, and your baseline AST level was_. These LFT’s may be indicative of a challenge in the liver or gall bladder. When any one of these values is starting to trend elevated, follow-up with is encouraged to identify ‘why’ your liver enzymes are trending.- These markers fall within the optimal parameters and no additional intervention is recommended.- There are many potential causes for elevations in LIVER FUNCTION TESTS (LFT’s). Some of the most common reasons include Antibiotics, Antiseizure meds, Acetaminophen (Tylenol), and Alcohol. When LFT’s are elevated, there is a reason to dig deeper. The liver is the organ that metabolizes medications, toxins, chemicals, and other foreign substances in the body. The liver is essential to good neurological health, and when LFT’s are elevated or trending elevated, there is an obvious insult or challenge with your liver that needs addressed. Sometimes this is as simple as a change in diet since sugars can inflame the liver and lead to fatty liver disease. ALCOHOL is another inflammatory chemical to the liver, and even if you only drink modestly, you may consider discontinuing ALCOHOL to protect the liver. We encourage you to open a discussion with your primary care doctor to investigate. - Since at least one of these values is trending elevated, we have already recommended NAC and/or LIPOSOMAL GLUTATHIONE to support the natural detox pathways in the liver. Follow up testing will identify if a positive impact has been made after starting The Enhance Protocol®.  - We calculated a FIBROSIS-4 score related to liver function tests and alcohol use. Your FIB-4 score is __ and cirrhosis is typically predicted at a score of > 1.5. Though your LFT’s fall within the optimal parameters, you are showing a MACROCYTOSIS as identified above.Body Weight Can Be A Predictor of Brain HealthTotal body weight can be a sensitive topic, and we want to approach it respectfully. If you are underweight, you are at risk for certain conditions that negatively impact brain health. The same goes for being overweight. We recognize that BMI is simply one way to measure total body weight, but it does not adequately reflect the true percentages of your muscle mass or fat mass. Understanding the difference between muscle mass and fat mass can help you make decisions to optimize your health. If you need additional support, please schedule a time to visit with one of our medical providers. Body Weight Often Correlates with Brain HealthBODY MASS INDEX (BMI) is a calculated measure of body fat based on height and weight. Excess body weight can be a symptom of a metabolic disorder. BMI often correlates with diabetic challenges and brain health. Your baseline BMI is_. Though practitioners within the health industry categorize a BMI < 25 as optimal, there are many variables that can impact the interpretation of BMI. One of the most common occurs in those with a high percentage of lean muscle. Work with your health coach to determine if you need to focus on optimizing your BMI. - As you participate in coaching, work with your memory coach to identify how you could implement a KETOGENIC diet to see if it helps to improve cognition. Consider applying the benefits of intermittent fasting and intentionally add healthy fats into your diet. - Weight loss that occurs along with very intentional meal planning often correlates with improved cognitive function.- Since your BMI is > 25, you are encouraged to screen your oxygen saturation levels at night using an OVERNIGHT OXIMETRY test. Some folks who also snore may choose to complete a full SLEEP STUDY to rule out nighttime hypoxia. Low oxygen levels at night add to the risk of cognitive dysfunction. This risk may be amplified in those who already struggle with brain fog or cognitive impairment. Other Insights From Your Past Medical HistoryThere may be several other risk factors identified in your medical history that should factor into your efforts to improve brain health. We have summarized these challenges below. We mention these issues because your first reported them. When you completed the questionnaire of your medical history, we identified a potential  relationship to your physical health and your brain health that you may not have recognized. We created a risk profile (shown below) that shows how elements from your personal health history can have an impact on your brain health. This is a proprietary risk profile that we created at A Mind For All Season to support our decision making about the next steps. The risk profile comes from your health history questionnaire and your laboratory test results. RISK PROFILE I  Your Risk Profile is a visual summary of your risk factors for cognitive decline. The information for this graph comes from two sets of data:Your Health History Questionnaire completed when you started The Enhance Protocol® and your Laboratory Tests Results. This risk profile helps us to prioritize interventions so you can optimize physical and cognitive health. TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY (TBI) or repeat CONCUSSIONS can lead to impaired brain functionYou have an increased risk of TRAUMA to your brain from _. After a head injury or concussion, many individuals develop persistent neurological symptoms. This is called “PCS” or Persistent Concussion Syndrome. Delayed symptoms from historical head injuries (even very old injuries) can develop slowly over time. The most common challenges include mood disorders, hormone deficiencies, irritable bowel symptoms, frequent headaches or migraines, unprovoked anxiety, sleep disorders, and cognitive impairment. Please consider embracing 4 key interventions to help to calm brain inflammation.- Review the section in our membership program on DYSAUTONOMIA. - Complete an OMEGA-3 CHALLENGE as taught by Michael Lewis, MD. This can be especially helpful if your OMEGA-3 levels are suboptimal. - Embrace regular cardiovascular exercise, particularly High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT).- Consider a trial of Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy (HBOT). More information about HBOT will follow at the conclusion of this Roadmap Report®.VASCULAR RISK – Unhealthy blood flow to the brain can lead to ?’d brain health and neurological dysfunctionVASCULAR risk considers triggers that disrupt or compromise blood flow through blood vessels and oxygen delivery to the brain. Your vascular-related risks include_- The primary interventions to improve cardiovascular health and the health of your blood vessels (arteries) are to regular and consistent exercise, deep breathing, reduce your risk for sleep apnea, and to calm inflammatory disorders.- In individuals with obvious risk factors, there are certain supplements (nitric oxide support) and interventions (hyperbaric oxygen, pulsed electromagnetic frequency therapy, and red and NIR light therapy.RISK OF TOXICITY - Heavy Metals, Chemicals, Biotoxins may negatively impact brain healthRisk factors or insights that suggest you may be at risk for TOXICITY include_. - The challenges noted in this section suggest there is a good reason to expand your lab work to include TOXICITY testing. The purpose of TOXICITY testing is to identify what toxins your immune system may be battling. - Please consult with one of our coaches during Office Hours for more details about the testing and pricing options to evaluate the impact of TOXICITY for you.GLYCOTOXIC RISK - ?’d Blood Sugar, Insulin Resistance, or Diabetes may negatively impact brain healthWhen BLOOD SUGAR levels run high, or when you show certain signs of METABOLIC CHALLENGES, you are more likely to damage sensitive blood vessels and nerves. Symptoms of poor metabolic health include chronic fatigue, neuropathy, loss of sensation or sensitivity, and brain fog or memory problems. Elements in your health history suggest that you may have metabolic challenges, including_.- Please consult with one of our coaches during Office Hours for more details about specific and intentional DIETARY INTERVENTIONS that may improve your metabolic and brain health.INSUFFICIENCY SYNDROMES such as suboptimal levels of nutrients, minerals, and hormones can impact brain healthWhen the body has INSUFFICIENT levels of nutrients or hormones, the function(s) of the central nervous system (CNS) is negatively impacted and can lead to ATROPHY of the brain and nerves. The most common form of an INSUFFICEINCY SYNDROME in women is menopause! Your potential risk factors include_. The brain requires an adequate or ‘sufficient’ amount of vitamins, nutrients, hormones, and antioxidants to function optimally. When any of these building blocks are at inadequate levels in the body, your brain may suffer from a form of ‘insufficiency syndrome.’- Low VITAMIN levels may suggest suboptimal dietary intake or inadequate digestion and absorption of nutrients. Bowel health plays a critical role in how you digest and absorb nutrients essential for brain health.- Several SUPPLEMENT and optimization strategies will be recommended throughout the Enhance Roadmap®.Systemic INFLAMMATION can lead to neurological impairment and negatively impact brain healthYour systemic INFLAMMATORY risk factors may include_- LIFESTYLE INTERVENTIONS have become the primary approach to calming chronic and persistent inflammation. At the conclusion of your Roadmap, you will learn more about the type of lifestyle interventions that help to promote optimal brain health. As a result of your health history, we have summarized some principles of functional medicine that may benefit you. These considerations come from our medical director’s history of managing complex medical challenges in a busy family practice. His experience using non-traditional interventions has helped many clients find relief from chronic and complex medical challenges. Autoimmune Disease and Brain HealthDid you know that more than ? of the cells in the brain are directly connected of your immune system?  That’s right… only  ? of the cells in the brain are neurons, and the other cells are directly connected to your immune system. This includes microglia, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. That is why any inflammatory challenge (chronic or repeat infection, gut issues, etc.) can lead to brain fog and neurological challenges. This may be one of the more significant reasons you struggle with cognitive challenges.  - You may consider purchasing the book called The TIGER Protocol©. This book details an integrative autoimmune disease beyond immunosuppression medicine. TIGER is a mnemonic that helps individuals remember the following triggers of immune dysfunction:- Toxins activate immune surveillance and can lead to immune and tissues dysfunction. Toxins need to be identified and cleared though lifestyle and integrative interventions. When toxins are stored or bound to connective tissue, the immune system can become activated against that tissue and lead to autoimmune disease(s). You may benefit from additional TOXIN testing.- Infections can trigger the immune system in both acute and chronic settings. The early signs of COVID-19 were the loss of the sense of taste and smell. Did you realize that this is a symptom of neurological dysfunction? It is important to both identify and eliminate less obvious or sub-acute infections. Hidden dental infections (often described as cavitations) from historical root canals or broken or decayed crowns and fillings, are a common place for infections to simmer inflammation and to activate autoimmunity. - Gut health is foundational to an integrative approach to autoimmunity. Immune specialists suggest that as much as 70% of your total body’s immune system is present in the Gut Associated Lymphatic Tissue (GALT). When we work to optimize and increase the diversity of your GI microbiome, it may also help to calm autoimmunity.- Eating plans are an essential treatment in all chronic disease states. The only thing you should feel when you eat is satiety! The food choices that we make, and the Eating plans we embrace, can trigger food sensitivity, allergies, and autoimmunity through intestinal permeability (leaky gut) and molecular mimicry.- Rest is essential to calm the autonomic nervous system and stress is an activator or our fight or flight response. Adequate and restful sleep are vital for healthy metabolism, learning, memory, and immune function. Studies have shown that patients with autoimmune disease are more likely to experience flare-ups of autoimmunity when the endure emotional stress. Establishing an active plan to calm the body and reduce stress can improve overall health.- Conventional approaches to autoimmunity rely on pharmaceutical treatments (namely immunosuppressants). However, there are several additional lab tests (Cyrex lab panels), off-label pharmaceutical treatment options (low dose naltrexone) and nutritional supplements (TURMERO XL, RESVERO, TRIZOMAL GLUTATHIONE, BIOFILM CLR, etc.) that can help reduce symptoms of autoimmunity. Please attend Office Hours or schedule a telemedicine consultation with our medical provider to discuss options and interventions that may help to improve your quality of life.Chronic Migraine HeadachesThough the term “vascular headache” is outdated, migraines involve changes in the blood vessels of the brain. Though the contributors of migraine headaches involve complex neurological changes, chemical signaling, and neurotransmitter release, the brain’s blood flow and the way the nervous system regulates the blood flow plays a major role in the development, frequency and intensity of migraine headaches. - Migraine headaches often include other neurological systems in addition to headaches. These symptoms can include aura, flashes of light, visual disturbances, sensory issues, speech and language dysfunction, etc. Because many of these same challenges are seen in patients with progressive concussion symptoms, please refer to the section on concussion for strategies to prevent and minimize migraine headaches. - Exercise is one of the most beneficial activities to prevent migraine headaches. Exercise stimulates the blood vessels to dilatate and contract in response to changes in blood flow. The blood vessels also respond to changes in the O2 and CO2 in the blood vessels. If you suffer with migraines, you may consider embracing a regular and routine exercise program.- High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) is a popular workout technique where you alternate between short bursts of intense exercise and brief recovery periods. Think of it like this; you go all-out for a short time, then take it easy for a bit, and repeat. This type of training can help push blood flow to areas of the brain that need a vascular stimulus. - If you suffer from chronic migraine headache, you are encouraged to learn more about the Buffalo Concussion Treadmill Test (BCTT). This test helps to pinpoint the heart rate at which neurological symptoms start to worsen and may help to identify neurological and vascular thresholds that predict conditions when you are more at risk of a migraine headache. - If you struggle to exercise, consider exercise with oxygen therapy. This type of therapy supports exercise while breathing a higher concentration of oxygen. Many who use EWOT find their exercise performance improves by increasing oxygen delivery to muscles and delaying or aiding muscle recovery. Others report improved cognitive function by increasing oxygen deliver to the brain.- Chronic headaches may also be related “leaky gut”. Those who suffer from migraine headaches have often used routine NSAIDS (ibuprofen) that may negatively impact GI health and lead to rebound headaches. Consider additional lab tests such as CYREX 2 & 20 testing to evaluate barrier health and its potential relationship to your chronic headaches.- There may be several supplements that can help prevent or minimize the frequency and intensity of your migraine headaches. Look up these supplements and come to office hours to learn more about their dosing and use.- Consider a trial of a supplement called NITRIC BALANCE. The standard dose is 10 mL 2-3 times per day. This supplement boasts a proprietary blend of nutraceuticals that stimulate the production of nitric oxide and improve blood flow. - Consider a trial of NEO 40. Th standard dose is 1 chewable tablet 2-3 x’s per day. This supplement uses a blend of beet root powder, hawthorn berry and citrulline. This blend also touts to stimulate the production of nitric oxide and improve blood flow.- If you have tried these options and you continue to struggle with headaches or migraines, please bring your questions to Office Hours and let’s talk though your personal health history to see if we can identify other potential triggers of migraine headaches (hormone imbalance, food allergy, sleep apnea, other).	Overactive Immune System & AllergiesParticipants who experience chronic allergies, chronic rashes, and multiple chemical sensitivities should consider a LOW HISTAMINE DIET in addition to a low carb diet. Avoid fermented foods such as alcohol, pickled foods, kefir, kombucha, sauerkraut, kimchi, etc.- Along with a diet that controls starchy carbohydrates, consider a LOW HISTAMINE DIET. A link to dietary recommendations has been posted in your Guidebook that follows. - Consider starting NEUROPROTEK 1 tablet each time you eat, or NEUROFLAM 2 tablets, 2x’s per day. The ingredients in these supplements belong to the family of flavonoids, botanicals that combat oxidative stress. The ingredients in these supplements have been shown in numerous studies to positively influence immune function.  - We encourage you to complete a CONE BEAM CT SCAN to verify that you are not suffering from an occult cavitation or chronic inflammatory response that is amplifying sinus congestion in the tooth/teeth with the root canal. In many instances, traditional dental x-rays are not sensitive enough to pick up these kinds of challenges and CT scanning is helpful.Gall Bladder Removal Can Predispose You To ToxicityThe need for gall bladder removal may be suggestive of a history of stagnant or low bile flow, which can be a predictor of TOXICITY. Please review the TOXICITY section of your Guidebook to learn about supplements that support bile flow and natural detox.  - Suboptimal flow of bile through the liver and gall bladder is predicable for chronic constipation or other symptoms of irritable bowel. Please bring your questions about bowel health to Office Hours. If GI issues are a constant challenge, you may also consider a TELEMEDICINE consultation with our medical director to talk through the ‘NORTH-to-SOUTH’ approach to GI Health. Additional fees may apply. In the meantime, ask your coach for access to the lunch and learn lecture series called ‘GI Health in 4 slides.’Parkinson’s DiseasePlease refer to the section on PARKINSON’S DISEASE and consider the integrative therapy options. Many practitioners view PARKINSON’S DISEASE as a combination of genetic susceptibility + damage from toxins. Please collaborate with your primary care provider and your memory coach to identify the potential benefit of TOXICITY TESTING.- A quick note about diet and Parkinson’s Disease. Dietary proteins (meat) can interfere with SINEMET, and yet many patients did not know how impactful this interference can be. If  you use SINEMET in the morning and afternoons, you may choose to have your proteins later in the day so you can maximize the impact of SINEMET. Please come to office hours for more information. - Are you aware of the research about exercise and Parkinson’s Disease. Exercise is one of the most substantial interventions to delay the progression of Parkinson’s.  You are encouraged to come and experience exercise with oxygen at the AMFAS Headquarters. - In the section about oxidative stress, we encouraged you to consider a GLUTATHIONE challenge. Please watch the following video on YouTube and come to Office Hours to learn how to embrace a GLUTATHIONE challenge. - Please do not underestimate the impact of dental health on Parkinson’s Disease. We have had clients who completed a CONE BEAM CT SCAN of their historical root canals only to find occult cavitations and subacute infections. Once resolved, they noted a significant improvement in the motor symptoms associated with Parkinson’s Disease.GI Health & the Gut-Brain Connection- Please refer to the section on GI health, IBS, and leaky gut. Many practitioners view GI disorders as a definitive risk for cognitive disorders. If we can improve your gut health, we may improve your brain. Consider the options for additional testing and integrative medicine options. You may benefit from a telemedicine consultation to work through challenges like persistent acid reflux and irritable bowel syndrome. To better understand the relationship between your GUT HEALTH and your BRAIN HEALTH, watch the masterclass.  Masterclass https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/masterclass/sections/387368/lessons/1471028 - There are several extremely helpful interventions that may help support healthy gut function, but it requires a problem-specific focus. We like to call this a ‘north-to-south’ perspective when working to improve common GI challenges. As an introduction to this perspective, please consider the following options: - MICROBIOME DIVERSITY is essential for GI health. If you have GI symptoms (acid reflux, gassy, bloating, diarrhea, constipation, or IBS, you should strive to improve your microbiome health. This may be especially helpful if you have multiple food sensitivities or allergies.   Masterclass https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/masterclass/sections/387368/lessons/1498518 - If you continue to struggle with persistent GI issues, you are encouraged to book a TELEMEDICINE consultation. Additional fees may apply. This recommendation is offered because of some of the concerns you identified in your health history. Additional interventions that we could consider include:- Consider adding ULTRA D 5000 to strengthen the dendritic cells of the Gut Associated Lymphatic Tissues (GALT). The recommended dose of this supplement is 1 tsp./day. If you choose to use this supplement, please discontinue your other VITAMIN D supplements. This may be especially helpful if you have chronic sinus congestion or chronic bronchitis. - Consider a trial of BETAINE HCL and DIGESTIVE ENZYMES with each meal to help support digestive health. This may be especially helpful if you have been taking acid-reducing medications.- Consider starting a trial of SWEDISH BITTERS as a means of promoting GI motility and to optimize release of bile from the liver. This may be especially helpful if you have a history of gall bladder problems. - Consider the value of additional testing (H. PYLORI vs. SIBO vs. STOOL testing vs. FOOD ALLERGIES) to rule out identifiable pathology. This may be especially helpful if you tried several supplements with limited benefits. - Consider using EnteroVite 2 caps, 2 x’s per day to reinforce SCFA requirements for healthy gut function. This may be helpful if you have already completed ‘poop studies’ and you had a low butyrate level or other short chain fatty acids. - Attend office hours to learn more about different eating styles (KETO vs. CARNIVORE vs. AUTOIMMUNE PALEO) that can help calm symptoms of an irritable bowel. A short-term adoption of one of these eating styles may prove beneficial.- You have noted surgical weight loss intervention in your personal history. Surgical weight loss interventions often lead to IBS, dumping syndrome, diarrhea, and/or other challenges with your bowels. This variable will necessitate an ongoing focus on GI health and dietary interventions during your Office Hours.Chronic ConstipationHealthy bowel movements are an essential part of GI Health and Detox. Refer to the section on Constipation. Consider the following options to ease the challenges of constipation. - Review the section in your Guidebook about the challenges of CHRONIC CONSTIPATION and look for additional interventions or considerations you could employ to optimize your bowel health. - Improve your daily hydration by drinking ? your body weight in ounces. If you continue with constipation, consider a few additional interventions as outlined below:- Consider using a supplement like SWEDISH BITTERS by NatureWorks®. The introductory dose is 1 tsp. before meals. This supplement does not taste good, but it will help stimulate bile production and regular bowel movements. Much of the Standard American Diet (SAD diet) has moved away from bitter herbs and foods. Bitters can help to reduce feelings of nausea, relieve occasional indigestion, ease heartburn, support balanced blood sugar levels, support your liver, and improve the overall function of the bowel. This is a good first step to improve your bowel patterns.- Consider taking a bile salt like OX BILE 250-500 mg 2x’s/day to support bile flow and to help improve constipation. This is a good first step to see if you can improve bowel patterns.- Consider adding COCONUT OIL or MCT Oil- 1 tsp to 1 TBSP per day if you are still struggling with constipation. COCONUT OIL is a natural laxative. It also is loaded with MCT OILS and can help provide KETONE Support to optimize brain health.- Since CONSTIPATION may result from an impaired VAGUS NERVE, you could consider GARGLING 4-5 times morning and night to stimulate the VAGUS NERVE. You may also consider brushing your tongue to stimulate the GAG REFLEX. When the VAGUS nerve is stimulated, the bowels often have improved innervation and constipation can be alleviated. More information can be found in the section on CONSTIPATION. When you attend Office Hours, you will learn more about simple lifestyle ‘hacks’ to try and improve bowel function. Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV) and Cognitive DeclineThe herpes virus family can increase your risk of cognitive decline. Refer to the section on Herpes infections and consider ways you can lower the risk of repeat infections.  - If you have frequent or repeat cold sores, then you are more likely to also experience symptoms consistent with CHRONIC VIRAL ENCEPHALITIS (headaches, vision changes, light and sound sensitivity, motion sickness and ringing in the ears). Repeated breakouts of cold sores (repeat HSV1 infections) are now considered a major contributory factor for Alzheimer’s disease. - Depending on the frequency of your cold sores, you may be a candidate for daily suppressive therapy using a prescription medication called VALACYCLOVIR. The dose can vary between 500 – 1000 mg/daily, or the lowest effective dose that helps to prevent outbreaks. - The Q&A opportunities during Office Hours can be an essential resource to help you work through your potential to benefit from prescription medication.- There is an OTC supplement called LYSINE that can also help to prevent repeat cold sores. The standard daily dose is 1000 mg daily. If you prefer a natural prevention strategy for HSV outbreaks, this is a good place to start.- Consider intermittent use of a supplement that contains TRANSFER FACTORS. The best time to use this supplement is during an active outbreak. Transfer factors are derived from colostrum, and they serve to activate natural killer cells within the immune system. They are recommended for those with a history of active, intermittent, or chronic viral infections. A brand that is often recommended in the functional medicine world is 4Life TRANSFER FACTOR. The standard dose is two capsules/day. Another brand is called WELLNESS TRANSFER FACTOR, and their standard dose is one capsule 2x’s/day. You can purchase this supplement online.Chronic Epstein Barr Virus (EBV) and ? Risk of Cognitive ImpairmentEpstein Barr Virus (EBV) can set up an underlying inflammatory disorder that leads to fatigue and cognitive disorders. Please refer to the section on EBV and consider the use of the supplements to alleviate symptoms.- Physical manifestations of chronic EBV may include intermittent rashes, intermittent low-grade fevers, intermittent earaches, chronic allergic rhinitis, intermittent sore throat, chronically swollen tonsils, palpable lymph nodes around the ear, the neck, the collarbone and the armpits, and intermittent congestion. If you resonate with a number of these symptoms, then you may be a candidate for additional testing.- Chronic EBV infections can be tricky! If you have EBV REACTIVATION SYNDROME, or chronic immune suppression, you may benefit from additional testing, including: * T and B-LYMPHOCYTE DIFFERNETIAL (LabCorp testing # 096917) * QUANTATIVE IMMUNOGLOBULINS A/E/G/M (LabCorp testing # 002295)* EBV VCA IgM, EBV VCA IgG, EBV EA IgG, and EBNA IgG.- The primary risk of CHRONIC EBV is the risk for activation of CHRONIC VIRAL ENCEPHALITIS (headaches, vision changes, light and sound sensitivity, motion sickness and ringing in the ears, etc.). If you resonate with these symptoms, you may be a candidate for routine suppressive therapy such as VALACYCLOVIR.- Speak with your primary care provider about completing some additional testing and about the potential use of VALACYCLOVIR 500 – 1000 mg per day to help suppress viral replication. If you choose not to start a prescription medicine, consider starting LYSINE 1000 mg daily as a natural prevention strategy.- If your PCP is less comfortable with these tests or interventions, you may benefit from a TELEMEDICINE consultation to talk through these challenges and to continue the discussion about personalizing your treatment approach.- If you are experiencing a VIRAL FLAIR, there are a host of natural inventions that help support immune activation against chronic viral infections. They may include:* TRANSFER FACTORS (4Life TRANSFER FACTOR® or WELLNESS TRANSFER FACTOR®). Transfer factors are derived from bovine colostrum, and like the passive immunity an infant receives from a nursing mother, exogenous colostrum may help to activate natural killer cells within our immune system. * X-VIROMIN supports immune function with nutraceutical agents such as astragalus & licorice root.* BIOFILM CLR is an enzymatic agent that helps break down biofilm and quench free radicals. * CATS CLAW ELITE (UNCARIA TOMENTOSA + MONOLAUREN) by Quicksilver Scientific. This supplement contains botanicals that may strengthen your immune response to viral infections and could help boost your immune function (WBC, Neutrophils and Lymphocytes).- These interventions are not used indefinitely! They are inventions that are analogous to an antibiotic that would be used to calm an acute infection. Most of these interventions are employed for 1-3 months depending on the clinical situation. Consider bringing this question to Randy’s Office Hours, or for a personal discussion, schedule a TELEMEDICINE consultation. Toxicity is Real & May Impact Your Brain HealthToxic exposures can be a significant contributor of brain fog and neurodegenerative diseases. Once you have solved nutritional deficiencies and hormone imbalance, you need to check for toxicity. Toxic substances in our immediate environment can enter our bodies, make their way to our brains, and negatively impact cognitive health. Our medical director prepared a masterclass series using laboratory examples from our current clients. You are encouraged to watch this series of 3 webinars completed in August 2024. You can access the first of these webinars with the link. Masterclass https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/masterclass/sections/387364/lessons/1441403 There are many laboratory tests that can help you identify your risk for toxicity with DEMENTOGENS (chemicals that lead to dementia. Please review the following highlights to better understand your risk for toxicity. - Have you ever completed any testing for TOXICITY? Many individuals talk about DETOX programs, but they have never completed a good TOXICITY SCREENING. - I invite you to watch this 20-minute video called the Utah Meth Cop Project. It was produced by a legal firm and co-sponsored by the Attorney General from the State of Utah. It is insightful and offers some thoughts on the risk for the accumulation of toxins in the average person. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t95uNZF5NK8- There are several reasonably priced tests for TOXICITY on the market. These are a few of our favorites:- Quicksilver Scientific has a test called the MERCURY TRI-TEST and BLOOD METALS PANEL which screens for imbalanced nutrients and toxic metals. The test utilizes blood, hair, and urine to measure both exposure and excretion rate. Learn more at https://www.quicksilverscientific.com/products/mercury-tri-test-r-blood-metals-panel?_pos=4&_fid=b34aa9027&_ss=c - Mosaic Diagnostics has a TOXDetect profile that tests for chemical classes including phthalates, VOCs, pesticides, and other important toxicants that can negatively impact your health. You can learn more about these tests at https://live-mosaic-gpl.pantheonsite.io/resources/ - Cyrex Labs offer several unique testing arrays that evaluate your immune response to foods, chemicals, metals, and environmental toxins. You can learn more about these tests at www.joincyrex.com- There are several tests that may help identify your risk for TOXICITY. Please plan to attend Office Hours to discuss how and when you can address your personal risk. - In your online health history, you reported a history of challenges with your gall bladder (either gall stones or gall bladder removal). This often occurs when the bile flow is compromised or impaired, and it suggests you have an additional risk factor for TOXICITY. If the flow of the bile slows, or become ‘sludge-like,’ TOXIC BUILD-UP results. This is yet another reason to consider additional toxin testing. Lifestyle Change is a Powerful Way to Improve Brain HealthMany individuals are looking for the ‘secret sauce’ that will help them to improve their brain health. We have learned that very intentional and significant changes in lifestyle will go a long way to improve blood flow to your brain, enhance oxygen delivery, lower inflammation, and reduce oxidative stress. When lifestyles improve, all other interventions discussed in this Enhance Roadmap® are amplified!Lifestyle Interventions and brain health. There is power behind B-E-D-D-S-S-S!We invite you to be intentional and incorporate as many of the lifestyle interventions listed below into your daily routine as possible. There is power in the completion of each of the following: Brain Training, Exercise, Dietary Interventions, Dental Health and Hygiene, Sleep Optimization, Stress Management and Supplements. To learn how to establish healthy habits that break through health barriers of reshaping your lifestyle, please watch this masterclass on establishing brain healthy habits to help you find longer term success. Masterclass https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/masterclass/sections/387366/lessons/1441416 Please review the sections below regarding THERAPEUTIC LIFESTYLES that promote mental clarity. Each of these recommendations can strengthen brain health and optimize your cognition.- Review your CNS VS test results and consider your interest or potential for benefit with a subscription to BRAIN HQ. The brain is very plastic, and it can respond to specific challenges that have been incorporated into this app. Ask your coach for more information. To learn about a home-based brain entrainment device like a DAVID Delight Pro, please watch this masterclass illustrating how you can do some brain therapy in the comfort of your own home.   Masterclass https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/masterclass/sections/387366/lessons/1441415 -  You can learn more about brain training programs like BRAIN HQ by attending office hours. - EXERCISE is one of the most researched interventions known to improve brain function and is an essential stimulus for neurogenesis and synaptogenesis. A daily exercise routine can improve cerebral blood flow, enhance oxygen delivery to the brain, and stimulate hormones that improve brain function. Many participants find that LiveO2® is a fantastic way to enhance total body oxygen levels during exercise. Ask your memory coach if you are a candidate for LiveO2® therapy.- EXERCISE is one of the most beneficial strategies for increasing CEREBRAL BLOOD FLOW. Depending on your physical health, would you consider increasing your current level of physical activity? Work with your coach identify how you can initiate a program that correlates with your physical health. Participants with obstructive sleep apnea, or a history of head injury and blood pressure challenges may find added support and benefit with routine LiveO2® training. When you support cardiovascular exercise with oxygen support, you can experience a powerful impact in your exercise, especially the recovery phase after exercise. Something special happens when you exercise with extra oxygen support! - You may consider a trip to the AMFAS HQ in Boise Idaho where you can experience EXERCISE WITH OXYGEN THERAPY (EWOT) and many other therapeutic interventions to improve brain health. Ask one of our coaches for more information during Office Hours.- Do not underestimate the power of DIET to improve brain health. Your coach can help you to apply the principles explained in the dietary section of your Guidebook. - Have you ever heard of a CONTINUOUS GLUCOSE MONITOR (CGM)? It is common to see an individual with diabetes wearing a blood sugar sensor on the arm. Wearing a CGM is one of the best ways to evaluate the impact of your diet on your metabolic health. Inquire with your coach for instructions on how to obtain and apply a CGM. We recommend that every participant of The Enhance Protocol® (including all non-diabetics) wear a CGM to learn about how their diet impacts their metabolic health. Come to Office Hours and ask how you can get a CGM to conduct a personal metabolic analysis.- There is a growing body of research linking brain health to your DENTAL HEALTH. Decide today to make positive changes to improve your dental health. Start using an ultrasonic toothbrush, consider purchasing a water pick, and visit a dentist if you are long overdue. - To learn more about how your dental health impacts your brain health, please watch the following masterclass.  Masterclass https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/masterclass/sections/387366/lessons/1441417 - If you have a history of at least 1 ROOT CANAL, you are encouraged to attend Office Hours and inquire about the benefits of a CONE BEAM CT SCAN (CBCT) of your mouth. When the nerve to a particular tooth is removed, bacteria can infiltrate the root area and initiate a sub-acute inflammatory response that is transmitted to the brain. In many instances, traditional dental x-rays are not sensitive enough to pick up these kinds of challenges and CT scanning is helpful.-  Though most folks understand how valuable sleep is for good mental and cognitive health, 25% of individuals with cognitive dysfunction have disordered sleep. As such, every person with cognitive decline should be screened for sleep apnea. Suboptimal nighttime oxygen levels amplify inflammation and impair cerebral blood flow and impair the brain’s lymphatic drainage. Please review the section of SLEEP OPTIMIZATION and ask your memory coach for guidance to make your sleep more restful and therapeutic. Sleep hygiene and hormone optimization should be at the top of your list! Please visit with your memory coach or primary care provider about OVERNIGHT OXIMETRY SCREENING or SLEEP STUDY.- You have reported a history of restless sleep. Consider purchasing a LOOKEE TECH® Sleep Oxygen Monitor. This self-monitoring device continuously tracks oxygen saturation levels and heart rate. It also gathers insight on movement during tracking and records data every four seconds, while awake or asleep. - It is often difficult to visit a sleep lab and complete an overnight oximetry. However, for a nominal fee, you can purchase a self-monitoring device that you can use at home to predict the quality of your sleep. You can get regular and routine data without having to sleep at a sleep lab. Visit www.lookeetech.com- You can bring all your questions about sleep disorders to Office Hours for more tips and guidance on supportive sleep.Have you ever wondered if you have obstructive sleep apnea? The Mallampati Score is a simple screening tool that can help you predict the integrity of your oral airway.Go in your bathroom and look in the mirror. Say ‘ahhhh,’ and inspect the opening in the back of your mouth. If your airway looks like a class 3 or 4, then you should assume you have OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA until screening or testing proves otherwise!- STRESS REDUCTION is an essential way to rebalance and refresh. We offer clients several interventions to lower stress and revitalize the mind. Interventions include audio-visual entrainment, red and NIR light therapy, PEMF therapy, far-infrared sauna, LiveO2®, Inner Balance® and Emwave2® breathing trainers, and a myriad of other interventions. Your memory coach can help you to identify interventions most likely to support your needs. - SUPPLEMENTS HELP RESTORE OPTIMAL LEVELS OF ESSENTIAL NUTRIENTS- A powerful advantage of The Enhance Protocol® is to personalize your supplement recommendations based on your medical history, social history, and your laboratory results. Additional supplement recommendations not associated with lab work will be discussed in the next section called NOOTROPICS.DON’T LET ALCOHOL KEEPING YOU FROM REACHING YOUR BRAIN HEALTH GOALS!- Did you know that ALCOHOL IS A NEUROTOXIN? In your history, you listed the moderate use of ALCOHOL. The cliché of our day is “everything in moderation.” However, when you view ALCOHOL as recognized neurotoxin, the argument is completely bogus! Even if your ALCOHOL use is infrequent or used in small quantities, do you really want to consume a ‘moderate’ amount of neurotoxin? ALCOHOL has far more disadvantages than advantages.- ALCOHOL is an ‘inflammogen,’ and when consumed in small quantities, it can exacerbate inflammatory pathways in the body. Though you may drink very little, in many ‘at-risk’ clients, even mild consumption can exacerbate epigenetic expression.- ALCOHOL messes up your sleep and ignites progressive inflammatory process in the liver and GI tract. - The early impact of ALCOHOL consumption is INTOXICATION. The late impact is a contribution to systemic inflammation, increased oxidative stress, impaired detoxification, and often neurodegenerative disease. - If you joined The Enhance Protocol® because you have risk for neurodegenerative disease, please consider complete abstinence from ALCOHOL as one of the lifestyle interventions you choose to utilize to improve your brain health.]- Please attend Office Hours and bring up your questions about ALCOHOL. This is a common question, and it often stimulates excellent online group discussion. - THC is a tricky habit, one that should be considered in the context of brain fog, fluctuating moods, or increased risk for neurodegenerative disease. There is little argument that THC impairs attention and focus, and a growing argument that it predisposes individuals to mental health challenges. Consider your use of THC. Is it medically necessary for you to use chronic pain syndrome, cancer, or chronic nausea? If not, are you using THC to address a less complex physical or mental health symptom or are you using it recreationally? We offer no judgment about your use. Our focus is brain health, and if there is a symptom that we can manage with other interventions that pose little to no threat of cognitive deficit, we embrace these interventions.Prescription Medicines May Lead to Brain Health ProblemsThere is a growing body of research that suggests some prescription medications can have a negative impact on brain health. Though you are encouraged to visit your doctor about medication adjustments, this section is designed to inform you of some of the challenges that you may face if you continue taking certain medications. Prescription Medications May Increased Risk of Brain Fog or Dementia in SeniorsPROTON PUMP INHIBITORS (PRILOSEC, OMAPRAZOLE and many others) are common prescription medications that treat acid reflux. However, a growing body of knowledge suggests these are troublesome medications when taken in the long term. When used long-term, these medications have been linked to rebound acid hypersecretion, increased fracture risk (osteopenia and osteoporosis), higher risk of infection (C. difficile and community-acquired pneumonia), diarrhea, magnesium deficiency, vitamin B12 deficiency, and acute interstitial nephritis.Work with your doctor and consider the risk and benefits of your long-term use. If you want to wean off this medication, intentional dietary and lifestyle changes increase your chances for success. You may also consider a trial with BETAINE HCL, and you could check to see if you have an H. PYLORI infection. You need to find the root causes of your acid reflux symptoms (food allergies or intolerances, alcohol, soda, etc.). Consider a TELEMEDICINE CONSULTATION if you need help from a functional medicine practitioner that has experience helping clients to discontinue this type of medicine. Additional fees may apply.OTC SLEEP AIDES- Your medical history notes that you are taking OTC MEDICATION FOR SLEEP. Most OTC sleep meds contain anticholinergics or antihistamines which contribute to brain fog. They are contraindicated in seniors who are at risk for cognitive decline.  The American Geriatric Society (AGS) BEERS CRITERIA® has issued a caution when using these medications because of an increased risk of anticholinergic effects. These medications are associated with adverse drug effects, such as cognitive impairment, confusion, delirium, blurred vision, dry eyes, constipation, dry mouth, urinary retention, decreased sweating, heat intolerance, dizziness, drowsiness, and increased heart rate. Individuals struggling with neurodegenerative disease might find their symptoms worsen if they routinely use OTC MEDICATION FOR SLEEP.Moreover, aging adults are much more sensitive to the adverse effects of anticholinergic medications due to age-related physiological changes (decreased renal or liver function) and pre-existing symptoms of cognitive impairment (dementia). Medications with anticholinergic properties should be avoided in aging individuals whenever possible. If deemed clinically necessary, they should be used at the lowest dose and shortest duration possible. The Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) released an updated report in June 2019 suggesting routine and continuous exposure to anticholinergic medications is associated with an increased risk of dementia.Your health history is suggestive of MICROGLIAL PRIMING, which is the result of brain injury with LOC, gut barrier issues, and/or a loss of oral tolerance. Your health coach can teach you about your brain’s immune response and share a separate document that explains MICROGLIAL PRIMING. Via the principles taught in The Enhance Protocol®, we hope to help you calm your immune system and improve your brain health. Your health history is so complex, you may benefit from a TELEMEDICINE consultation to work through a prioritization schedule for interventions. When in doubt… you should also start with lifestyle optimization (Diet, Sleep, Exercise and Stress Management).ANTIPSYCHOTIC MEDICATIONS IMPAIR COGNITIVE FUNCTION- Your medical history notes that you are taking an antipsychotic medication. This medicine is contraindicated in dementia and adds increased risk of deterioration. We are hopeful when you implement the strategies in The Enhance Protocol®, you can discontinue your antipsychotic medications. The American Geriatric Society (AGS) BEERS CRITERIA® has issued a caution when using these medications due to increased risk of anticholinergic effects. Numerous studies have shown that medications with anticholinergic properties are associated with adverse drug effects such as cognitive impairment, confusion, delirium, blurred vision, dry eyes, constipation, dry mouth, dry mouth, urinary retention, decreased sweating, heat intolerance, dizziness, drowsiness, and increased heart rate. Individuals struggling with neurodegenerative disease might find their symptoms worsening when routine use of antipsychotic medications.Moreover, aging adults are much more sensitive to the adverse effects of anticholinergic medications due to age-related physiological changes (decreased renal or liver function) and pre-existing symptoms of cognitive impairment (dementia). Medications with anticholinergic properties should be avoided in aging individuals whenever possible. If deemed clinically necessary, they should be used at the lowest dose and shortest duration possible. The Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) released an updated report in June 2019 suggesting routine and continuous exposure to anticholinergic medications and antipsychotics is associated with an increased risk of dementia.A common prescription muscle relaxant frequently used to reduce back pain or muscle spasms is called FLEXERIL (also called CYCLOBENZEPRINE). The American Geriatric Society (AGS) Beers Criteria® has suggested caution when using these medications due to increased risk of causing an anticholinergic effect. Numerous studies have shown that medications with anticholinergic properties are associated with adverse drug effects such as cognitive impairment, confusion, delirium, blurred vision, dry eyes, constipation, dry mouth, dry mouth, urinary retention, decreased sweating, heat intolerance, dizziness, drowsiness, and increased heart rate. Individuals struggling with brain fog might find their symptoms worsening when routinely using CYCLOBENZEPRINE.A common prescription use for anxiety or sleep disorder includes VISTARIL (also called HYDROXYZINE). The American Geriatric Society (AGS) Beers Criteria® has suggested caution when using these medications due to increased risk of causing an anticholinergic effect. Numerous studies have shown that medications with anticholinergic properties are associated with adverse drug effects such as cognitive impairment, confusion, delirium, blurred vision, dry eyes, constipation, dry mouth, dry mouth, urinary retention, decreased sweating, heat intolerance, dizziness, drowsiness, and increased heart rate. - Use of this medicine may contribute you inadequate emptying of your bladder and the need to get up several times per night to urinate. - Use of this medicine is contraindicated in individuals at risk for neurodegenerative disorder- Work with your coach to identify lifestyle strategies or nutraceutical agents that can help with sleep disorders. Interventions may include:- A morning EXERCISE routine with EXPOSURE to BRIGHT LIGHT.- Use of a CBD gummy combined with MELATONIN or other nutraceuticals like GABATONE® by Apex Energetics.- Consideration of your sleep hygiene and nighttime routine, pre-sleep light exposure, blue light blocker glasses, etc.- Low dose PROGESTERONE (commonly used in individuals with TBI or post-concussion syndrome). This is a prescription medicine and would require a medical consultation. Additional fees may apply. - Speak with your primary care doctor and consider an alternative to FLEXERIL (CYCLOBENZAPRINE) and reduce your anticholinergic burden. Your memory coach may have some thoughts about naturopathic options to calm inflammation and to reduce pain.Do You Need More Personalized Guidance?Those who prefer a more personalized approach to their brain health may decide to visit Boise, Idaho to participate in a Brain Health Boot Camp at the AMFAS Headquarters! We have offered Boot Camps for one individual, and we have held Boot Camps for large groups of executives. Many participants of The Enhance Protocol® come to experience hyperbaric therapy, exercise with oxygen therapy (EWOT), interactive metronome, red light therapy, PEMF, and a more in-depth physical exam with our medical staff. Each Brain Health Boot Camp is unique based on the needs of the participants. To learn how you can participate in a Brain Health Boot Camp, send an inquiry to info@amindforallseasons.comWe will find out what you would like to accomplish and prepare for a special, personalized approach to your visit. Consider TELEMEDICINE CONSULATIONS to Personalize Your Health Goals- If you have seen several physicians but you have found limited relief from your complex health challenges, you should consider a telemedicine consultation with or medical director. Our team of experts has a deep understanding of the system’s approach to brain health, and we may be able to help you link symptoms with underlying causes. When we can identify and address the root causes of health problems, health improves. - Many clients choose to purchase a telemedicine package and spend some time working through their health history and to personalize a plan of care to better support their health. Additional fees may apply. Consider Attending our BRAIN HEALTH BOOT CAMP- The magic of The Enhance Protocol® lies in the coaching services we offer. If you are feeling overwhelmed and you would benefit from more face-to-face time with our medical director and coaching staff, then you should inquire about BRAIN HEALTH BOOT CAMP! - If you have multiple health challenges, or you are a caregiver for someone with neurodegenerative disease, and your primary care provider has less experience addressing the nuances and risk factors summarized in this Roadmap®, then you need BRAIN HEALTH BOOT CAMP. - If you only see your primary care provider for 15 minutes, 2x/year and the only interventions you accomplish in those short visits are your medication refills, then you need more support. - If you could benefit from additional guidance, several hours of personalized coaching, and a therapeutic, brain-training experience tailored to your personal needs, then you are an excellent candidate for BRAIN HEALTH BOOT CAMP. - If you have never experienced HYPERBARIC OXYGEN THERAPY, PEMF, AUDIO VISUAL ENTRAINMENT, EWOT, RED and NIR LIGHT THERAPY, then you need to consider BRAIN HEALTH BOOT CAMP.  - Come to Office Hours and ask how you can learn more about these stimulation therapies, and how you can use them from your home. There is a summary of these therapeutic interventions that will follow at the end of your Roadmap Report™. Ask your coach for more information. Additional fees may apply.  Consider THERAPEUTIC PLASMA EXCHANGE as an intervention to improve your health- If you have significant challenges that include, COVID long-haulers syndrome, neurodegenerative disease, unrelenting autoimmunity, fibromyalgia, chronic inflammatory disorders, etc. you may find some relief using THERAPEUTIC PLASMA EXCHANGE (TPE) may have significant benefit. - You may consider a TELEMEDICINE consultation with a provider from AMFAS to talk through the application of TPE for your health concerns. Consider HYPERBARIC OXYGEN THERAPY (HBOT) as an Intervention to Improve your Brain Health- Many clients have brain health challenges for which HYPERBARIC OXYGEN THERAPY (HBOT) therapy may be extremely beneficial. HBOT therapy really shines in the wound management arena, and many of our clients have ‘brain wounds!’ There is a growing body of evidence that concussions, TBI’s, strokes, TIA’s, and other forms of neurodegenerative disease of types of ‘brain wounds.’ Our medical director is board certified in hyperbaric medicine, and we invite you to our therapy studio to experience a complimentary HBOT session and learn whether HBOT might be helpful for you. - If you wonder if HBOT would help you improve your brain health, please bring your questions to Office Hours and learn how to vet HBOT providers in your area. Learn about the questions to ask and inquire how you measure your progress when implementing HBOT. Consider Audio Visual Entrainment or Pulsed Electromagnetic Therapy for Brain Stimulation- Many participants have difficulty sleeping, difficulty concentrating, or struggle with depression and anxiety. Research shows that brain wave entrainment may help to optimize brain waves and subsequently, optimize brain function. - Come to Office Hours and ask your coach about acquiring and using a DAVID Delight Pro or the ICES Model M1 in your own home as part of your brain stimulation protocol. Additional fees may apply.Your Participation In Our Community Will Enhance Your Success- This Enhance Roadmap® may feel very overwhelming but resist the urge to panic! We have tried to summarize your personalized interventions in a way that is easy to understand and implement. However, there may be recommendations that are unfamiliar and difficult to understand. We have prepared lots of tools to help you be successful. - Schedule your 1:1 Roadmap Review with an expert member from our team.- Come to Office Hours on our community website and review the video content we have recorded for you- Schedule a telemedicine consultation with our medical providers if you need more support. - Together, we can methodically work through all the recommendations in this summary. You don’t have to do everything at the same time. Pick a recommendation or an intervention, implement the recommendations and monitor your health over several months. This process will help you to identify those interventions that make a significant improvement in your health. Then repeat the process with another recommendation or intervention.  Prepare to Complete Follow-up Testing- Most participants take their supplements, participate in brain therapy, and then retest both diagnostics and labs. Repeating testing will give insight into how your body, mind and metabolism have been improved by your efforts. You should plan to retest diagnostics and lab work according to the AMFAS retesting schedule. You should plan to retest diagnostics and lab work on approximately _.“A good plan well executed today is better than a perfect plan executed at some indefinite point in the future.”General George E. PattonTherapy Interventions That Support Brain HealthINTEGRATIVE TREATMENT CONSIDERATIONS- If you are a participant of The Enhance Protocol®, the following integrative therapy options are available to help complement the interventions previously outlined. RED & NIR LIGHT THERAPY- The beneficial effects of light therapy on the brain are realized by increasing cerebral blood flow, increasing oxygen availability & consumption, and boosting ATP energy production and mitochondrial activity1. In 2017, a team of researchers assessed the neurocognitive function of adults ages 49-90 who complained of memory loss.  Researchers found that study participants improved in all cognitive measures studied after light treatments. Their improvements included improved reaction time, increased resting-state EEG wave lengths measured in the prefrontal lobe of the brain, and various other improvements.  The most encouraging note is that participants experienced “no adverse effects” of the intervention.If you have a history of head trauma and/or concussions, RED and NIR Light therapy is a very safe and effective way to address traumatic brain injury (TBI) associated with cognitive decline. A Mind For All Seasons was the first private company in the United States to offer the THOR LED Helmet therapy as a means of delivering specific wavelengths of cranial-directed RED and NIR light to the brain. If you want to continue RED or NIR light therapy on a daily routine from your home, you may choose to purchase a home therapy unit. We can point out therapy devices that many of our clients have used that are affordable, high-quality products with great reviews. Your memory coach and get you more information about these devices upon request. VIELIGHT THERAPY- In the world of brain photobiomodulation technology and research, VieLight is a trail blazer. Their proprietary design uniquely targets the default mode network of the cerebral cortex, as well as the ventral area of the brain.  Their patented, cold LED diodes generate substantial power without releasing heat, enabling direct contact with the body’s surface to maximize energy transmission and penetration. Their devices are used worldwide amongst major organizations and single individuals seeking to improve brain function2. PEMF THERAPY- Nearly all metabolic functions in the human body optimize when circulation is supported and enhanced. When circulation is compromised, cellular and tissue injury occurs. This is often defined as ischemic tissue injuries or organ insufficiencies.  Most consider circulation as the flow of blood that occurs from the beating of the heart.  However, about 75% of all circulation occurs in the smallest blood vessels and capillaries (< 100 nanometers in diameter) via a process called microcirculation.  Microcirculation can be supported via a non-invasive passive therapy that is easy, relaxing, and comfortable to complete (Physical Vascular Therapy: Bemer 2018).  AUDIO-VISUAL ENTRAINMENT CAN STRENGTHEN NEURAL CONNECTIONS Mental sharpness, memory, and reaction times are correlated with brain wave activity. As the brain waves slow, cognition also slows, and memory can deteriorate3. Audio-Visual Entrainment (AVE) can play a pivotal role in maintaining and improving attention and cognitive function. AVE has the potential to improve energy, attention, reasoning, memory, spatial ability, reaction times, processing speeds and cognitive proficiency. AVE can also improve the cerebral blood flow to the brain, improve the delivery of oxygen and key nutrients, and carry away metabolic waste and lymph.There are many devices that can be used to train the brain. We use a device called the DAVID Delight Pro from www.mindalive.com but we have used many devices. We like this the most because they disclose their entrainment frequency, and they have an excellent customer service department that is willing to answer questions. This entrainment product can be purchased for home use. Many of our clients develop a love of the DAVID Delight Pro and they choose to purchase their own device. Many find that they are better able to relax, focus, or sleep when they routinely use their Digital Audio-Visual Integrative Device.  Masterclass https://community.amindforallseasons.com/c/masterclass/sections/387366/lessons/1441415 SAUNA THERAPY MAY REDUCE THE RISK OF CARDIOVASUCLAR DISEASE & DEMENTIA- In an article printed in the Age and Aging Journal (2017), researchers outlined the inverse relationship between frequent sauna bathing and the development of Alzheimer’s and other forms of dementia. 2,315 healthy men were followed for 20 years. After controlling for many confounding variables, the men who participated in moderate to high frequency sauna bathing (4-7 sauna treatments per week) had the lowest risk of Alzheimer’s and other forms of dementia4. Researchers suggest the reduction may be related to improved endothelial function, improved blood flow, reduced inflammation, and less oxidative stress.As we age, we sweat less than we did in youth5 because our eccrine (sweat) glands shrink and become less responsive to temperature and activity. Furthermore, as we age, we become less physically active.  Sauna bathing helps to improve heart rate, blood pressure, boost natural immunity, and support detoxification. These physical adaptations help to improve blood flow to our brain. Sauna experts have suggested the skin is ‘the third kidney,’ and can aid total body detox. Research data has proven that an individual who sweats more often from sauna therapy may improve their body’s elimination of heavy metals and non-metal toxins (bisphenols, phthalates, etc.)6.  We embrace both steam and dry sauna therapy. If you are one who feels claustrophobic in a steam sauna, you may be more able to tolerate dry or infrared sauna therapy. Far-infrared sauna therapy is a growing health trend because many home-based saunas are inexpensive, and help clients improve symptoms of inflammation and aging. We have a far-infrared sauna at our therapy studio in Boise, Idaho and we encourage all participants to try it.Though a little technical, sauna therapy stimulates heat shock proteins and may reduce muscle atrophy, protein aggregation, and improve health span. If you are interested in ‘geeking out,’ and learning more about sauna therapy, check out a fantastic podcast with Ronda Patrick. Dr. Patrick is a well-respected researcher on health and longevity, and she methodically outlines a host of scientific benefits applicable to sauna therapy. You can find her podcast at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RWkv9ad7zvc LIVEO2 THERAPY- The primary purpose of the LiveO2 system is to increase the level of dissolved oxygen in blood plasma. The system supplies users with high flow oxygen (85% + purity) during various intensities of exercise. This therapy raises the partial pressure of body oxygen and increases the amount of dissolved oxygen in the blood plasma. Exercise with oxygen therapy (EWOT) is an amazing way to support and improve oxygenation to the brain, especially during exercise. The following graphic shows a sequential representation of brain oxygen improvement during EWOT therapy using a Portalite® near infrared sensor secured to the forehead during a LiveO2 training session in a 55-year-old male.Brain oxygenation measurements were taken during an Adaptive Contrast session(s) using 60 second desaturation trials, followed by reoxygenation episodes for 60 second increments using the WholeO2 setting. The final ‘rebound’ brain oxygenation measurement was taken after 10 aggressive ‘Adaptive Contrast’ events followed by deep breathing of WholeO2. The EWOT protocol can be effective in as little as 15-20 minutes because participants experience an increased heart and respiratory rate during the exercise protocol. This therapy can positively impact any chronic illness when poor circulation or sub-optimal oxygenation may be a contributor. You are encouraged to try this therapy. For more information about LiveO2 and EWOT therapy, please consult your memory coach.RIGHTEYE DYNAMIC VISION TRAINER™ is a computer-based oculomotor (eye) training program developed to help improve an individual’s vision tracking abilities. Suboptimal eye tracking is a subtle but common indicator of brain dysfunction from concussive brain injuries. The RightEye Dynamic Vision Trainer™ gamifies vision exercises and allows participants to objectively track ocular progress as exercises are completed. The EyeQ trainer helps to improve a participant’s dynamic vision and eye tracking and can synergistically improve other symptoms of cognitive dysfunction (headaches, cognitive fatigue, neuroplasticity, etc.). This technology can synergize and enhance the other brain training services offered at our brain therapy studio. In fact, 93% of participants who use the technology report feeling better after using Dynamic Vision Trainer for just one week.  You can learn more about his technology here: https://righteye.com/products/dynamic-vision-trainer/    The FDA- RightEye Cleared Vision System™ that allows us to: - Validate and illustrate pre-and-post rehabilitation program results.- Quickly and objectively identify eye-movement related impairments.- Combine ocular testing with body positional changes to better understand vestibular and balance issues.60uP® or BTrackS BALANCE SUPPORT THERAPY- Participants with balance issues are encouraged to participate in therapeutic exercises that can help target and improve the balance center of the brain. There are many options available. You can visit with your memory coach about the 60uP® training platform, the BTrackS Balance Training programs on the Balance Board, or Interactive Metronome training. Each of these tools engages the participant in a little unique way. Some are easier, some more challenging. Your memory coach can help identify the best therapy tool or platform for your needs. Regardless, the point of balance training is to stimulate and challenge your synaptic connections, improve body strength, posture, eye movements, coordination, and neuro-synchronicity.   INTERACTIVE METRONOME- This type of therapy works to organize and coordinate neural networks such as the default mode network, the central executive network, and the salience network.  Therapy helps coordinate nervous signaling so that transmissions are synchronized. This therapy tool incorporates a timing intervention that is stimulated by your senses of vision, hearing, and motor function to maximize neuroplasticity. You are encouraged to embrace a series of these interventions now that you have engaged in The Enhance Protocol. Interactive Metronome is best utilized at our therapy studio, but there are adaptations to the technology that allow participants to participate over an online ZOOM platform. Additional fees apply for the technology plug ins that are required for remote users. OTHER BRAIN THERAPY OPTIONS AT THE AMFAS HQ- We offer a few additional, integrative therapeutic options for those who can visit our headquarters in Boise and dedicate a few hours each week to their cognitive improvement efforts.  Preparing For The Next 90 DaysIf you feel overwhelmed, you are not alone. There are many factors that influence brain health, and a comprehensive analysis like this can feel confusing and leave people wondering where to start. That’s why the most important part of your membership is coaching! An experienced member of the AMFAS team will review this report with you in a 1:1 meeting and help you formulate some simple next steps. As you begin moving forward, we strongly encourage you to attend our online office hours at least once a week. Office hours are accessed on your online membership site by clicking on the Office Hours calendar at the appointed day and time. The small group coaching we provide in office hours gives you an opportunity to report on how you are doing, ask questions, learn from others, make connections with people who are also striving to improve their brain health, and identify the next steps. You are encouraged to attend as often as you like! IF YOU FEEL A NEED FOR MORE 1:1 COACHING, you are welcome to schedule a telemedicine consultation or a private coaching session. Links are found on the membership site in the Documents & Resources section.CONSIDER ATTENDING OUR BRAIN BOOT CAMP- Many participants who embrace The Enhance Protocol® find that they are better able to understand all interventions they can employ to strengthen their cognitive function if they participate in Boot Camp. Just as this Roadmap suggests, there are MANY things that can be done to improve brain function. Participants of Boot Camp get a focused level of hands-on support at boot camp. They express a high level of satisfaction with the several hours of personalized coaching offered at Boot Camp. Many participants report that they are better able to follow their personalized plan after receiving several hours of personalized coaching they obtained by attending.  SHARE THIS ENHANCE ROADMAP WITH YOUR FAMILY AND FRIENDS- The recommendations in this summary are meant to be shared. Ask your closest family and friends to read this summary and ask them to help you follow the recommendations. If they are skeptical, invite them to participate in your next Office Hours. Unfortunately, most individuals still think there is NOTHING that can be done to slow or alter the course of dementia. THEY ARE WRONG!  There is so much that can be done, and the new scientific data that is emerging is impressive and powerful. We maintain a library of data and information that supports the recommendations in this summary. We are ever learning and improving. We want to learn and progress with you. We are happy to share what we know with your family, friends, and your primary care physicians.HOW FAST WILL YOU SEE THE RESULTS? Brain health usually changes slowly. Although we occasionally see rapid improvements in our clients, most people who diligently apply the recommendations we make will experience steady improvement over the course of 3 to 12 months. The health of your brain at the time you begin participating in The Enhance Protocol has a lot to do with the speed of your progress. By the time a person is diagnosed with a dementing illness like Alzheimer’s, the underlying pathology has often been developing in the brain for 20+ years, so please do not expect to go from demented to brilliant in 3 months! In contrast, clients who are young and otherwise healthy, but have brain health problems related to concussive injuries, are likely to have profound results in a shorter period. Most importantly, though: having a healthy brain is not about a short-term program; it is about making choices to optimize your health for the rest of your life. We hope you will choose to remain a member of the AMFAS community and proactively protect your brain health for the rest of your life!ADDITIONAL TESTING IS RECOMMENDED- After you have followed recommendations and made lifestyle adjustments for at least 3 months, please plan to repeat some diagnostic lab tests and your cognitive testing. One of the most important things we can do to help you reach your goals is measure your progress and recommend adjustments. After you have followed recommendations and made lifestyle adjustments for at least 3 months, please plan to take another CNS Vital Signs test (or MoCA test) and re-do your blood work. You will not need to do the genetic testing again, so the lab panel will be less expensive. We will prepare a new Roadmap Report based on your results so we can identify your successes, find areas that need further improvement, and recommend next steps, including ways to simplify your program wherever possible. If you have questions about re-testing or would like to arrange for the new tests, please email us at info@amindforallseasons.com or call 208-378-2860 and speak to a member of the team.DO YOU WORRY ABOUT THE EXPENSE? Participation in The Enhance Protocol® is not cheap. Occasionally, we have a client express concern about the cost of coaching, or the supplements, or the additional tests (toxicity, autoimmune testing, etc.). We understand that everybody’s funds are tight, and we have attempted to make your participation as affordable as possible! However, did you know that dementia is now the most expensive chronic disease7? It is more expensive than heart disease and cancer. Consider your investment in The Enhance Protocol® as an investment in YOU! The cost of assisted living or long-term care is exquisitely expensive, and we can provide coaching and support for 12 months, including the cost of supplements, for less than you would spend in 2 months of assisted living. When high-risk clients understand the long-term costs of dementia, they seldom discontinue service. THIS SUMMARY IS NOT DESIGNED TO CHANGE OR ALTER YOUR MEDICAL TREATMENT PLAN WITHOUT THE CONSENT OF YOUR PRIMARY HEALTHCARE PROVIDER. This summary can be used as a companion guide to enhance your current health, particularly your cognitive function. However, you are encouraged to review this document with your family physician and get permission to integrate as many of the recommendations as your doctor feels are appropriate. Then, after you have a few months of following the recommendations, you are encouraged to retest the metabolic and laboratory values that fell outside of the optimal ranges so your doctor can continue to fine-tune your treatment plan. We can help you recheck your labs, or you can visit your doctor to complete the labs. COGNITIVE ENHANCEMENT IS A PROCESS, NOT AN EVENT! Individuals with dementia have often had the elements of the disease for many years before cognitive impairment became obvious. You must be patient through the treatment process and apply as many of the personalized approaches in this summary as possible.  We have outlined ways you can optimize your total health, your sleep, your diet, your level of physical activity, your lab work, your medications, and your overall approach to treat dementia. Be patient, it will take time. Do the best you can! Be diligent, ask questions and stay in frequent communication with your memory coach. We feel honored to serve you. Respectfully,Randy Vawdrey, NP-C, CMOArchitect of The Enhance Protocol® and Chief Medical OfficerA Mind For All Seasons®Disclaimer: The owners and operators at A Mind For All Seasons® (AMFAS) have attempted to present the information in this Enhance Roadmap as helpful information derived from the published literature, books, and other references in circulation about optimizing health. This summary contains principles from functional medicine, as well as opinions and practices from various physician and nurse practitioners that can be considered when attempting to alleviate symptoms of chronic conditions, particularly dementia. However, the viewpoints expressed in this summary are the exclusive opinions of the principals at A Mind For All Seasons® and should not be taken as medical advice. The Food and Drug Administration has NOT approved or evaluated any of the statements contained in this summary or on our website.  Any consideration, reference, or link to a specific intervention is for your information and convenience only and should not be construed as an enticement to implement or purchase a supplement or a device and is not intended to be used in the mitigation or diagnosis of any disease without the approval of your doctor.  No part of The Enhance Protocol® shall be assumed to constitute medical advice.  None of the products or services at AMFAS are designed to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.  Consult with your physician before beginning any intervention you may have learned because of your affiliation with AMFAS, its products, or services.  For all suspected or known health concerns, always consult with your physician or health care provider prior to implementing any considerations or interventions.1 Hamblin. M. Shining light on the head: Photobiomodulation for brain disorders. BBA Clinical. 2016, December; 6: 113-124. doi: 10.1016/j.bbacli.2016.09.0022 https://vielight.com/brain-photobiomodulation-devices/3 Siever, 2005 (revised 2015). Seniors: Getting young again by boosting the brain with audio-visual entrainment.   www.mindalive.com/research4 Age and Ageing 2017; Sauna bathing is inversely associated with dementia and Alzheimer’s disease in middle-aged Finnish men. Vol 46: 245–249 doi: 10.1093/ageing/afw215 Journal of Applied Physiology, 1987.  Doi: https://www.physiology.org/doi/abs/10.1152/jappl.1987.63.3.10896 Hindawi Publishing Corporation: Journal of Environmental and Public Health Volume 2012, Article ID 184745, 10 pages doi: 10.1155/2012/184747https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7743647/#:~:text=Alzheimer's%20disease%20and%20related%20dementias,to%20outsized%20health%20care%20utilization ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------129111